SEASON 1
EPISODE 1

[In Erin's bedroom. Orla is reading Erin's diary.]

Erin: Is that my diary?

[In the Quinn kitchen. Erin is ranting to Mary while Orla casually licks her spoon.]

Erin: She's gone too far this time, Mammy. I mean, what next? Will I catch her trying on my knickers?

Mary: Don't say knickers in front of your father. He can't cope.

Erin: Aye, he can't cope.

Orla: Sure, what's a pair of knickers between cousins?

Mary: Less of the knickers.

Erin: I won't put up with it anymore. Teenagers have rights now, you know?

Mary: Don't be ridiculous.

Erin: They do, Ma. It's true. Sure, Macaulay Culkin might be divorcing his parents.

Mary: (to Jerry) Do you hear this? This'll be someone she met at that stupid summer scheme you insisted we send her on. A bloody 'Friends Across the Barricades' thing. I have nothing against Protestants. I'm all for integration, I am. But if they're letting their wains divorce them…

Erin: Macaulay Culkin isn't a Protestant, Ma.

Mary: It's only gonna give our wains ideas.

Erin: Well, he might be. But I didn't meet him at 'Friends Across the Barricades'.

Mary: I don't care where you met him. You're not to see him again. Understood?

Erin: Fine. (storms off)

Granda Joe: (watching TV) Look at this. They're bombing the bridge, apparently.

Mary: (looks worried) No.

(Everyone runs to the TV)

Mary: Oh dear God, no. Does this mean they can't get to school? I've had a whole summer of it, Gerry. She's melting my head.

Gerry: Sure their bus can go the long way round.

(knock on the front door)

Mary: I'll get it. (opens door) Alright Sarah?

Granda Joe: (To Gerry) Them wains shouldn't have to take the bus to school. You should be driving them, you useless shit.

Gerry: I have to work, Joe.

Granda Joe: Work? (chuckles) Is that what you call it?

Gerry: Yes.

Granda Joe: Why don't you just leave my Mary alone?

Gerry: Because we've been married for seventeen years, Joe. We have two children. And because, we're in love with each other.
Erin: (looks disgusted while eating toast) Aw, boke.

Granda Joe: I'll find some dirt on you yet, boy. I've got people working on it.

Orla: (in shock while eating a bowl of cereal) God, Mammy. You're up early.

Sarah: So are you. You should be having a lie in, love. You're on your holidays. (takes bowl of cereal out of Orla's hands)

Mary: First day of term, Sarah.

Sarah: Is it, aye?

Mary: It is, aye.

(Erin takes large bite of toast while everyone starts watching the TV again.)
 
Sarah: (eating cereal) Well, I don't know about the rest of you, but I'm not enjoying this bomb.

Granda Joe: Shocking.

Mary: Desperate.

Sarah: Disgusting and disgraceful. I have an appointment at Tropicana at twelve. Fifteen minutes in this stand up. But sure I'll not get over the bridge at this rate. It's going to play havoc with my build-up. This is what they want. They want ordinary people to suffer. This is what it's all about.

Erin: I'm pretty sure interfering with your sunbed sessions isn't very high up on anyone's political agenda, Aunt Sarah.

Sarah: I wouldn't be so sure.

Erin: (gets up and puts on a denim jacket) We better head.

Mary: (looks shocked) Hey. What do you think you're playing at? Where's your blazer?

Erin: I've decided to put my own spin on the uniform this year.

Mary: I'll spin you across that floor. Get your blazer on.

Erin: Look, Mammy, I'm not a clone. I should be allowed to express my individuality. I'm sorry, I'm not wearing my blazer, end of story.

Mary: Gerry, pass me the wooden spoon.

(Erin looks appalled.)

[On the street. Clare is wearing a denim jacket, waiting for her friends. Erin and Orla approach wearing blazers.]

Clare: What's all this? I thought we were going to be individuals this year.

Erin: Look, I wanted to Clare, but my Ma wouldn't let me.

Clare: Well, I'm not being an individual on my own. (takes off jacket)

[In Dennis's Wee Shop. Erin, Orla and Clare are standing by the pick and mix. Clare smells some of the sweets.]

Erin: You not getting anything?

Clare: Sure, aren't I doing this fast for Ethiopia?

Erin: (putting sweets in bag and eating some) Oh for Christ's sake. What is it with you and Africa?

Clare: (excitedly) Will you sponsor me?

Erin: How much?

Clare: Two pound.

Erin: Two pound? Catch yourself on.

Clare: What's happening over there is really lousy, Erin. Father Conway showed us a video. There's this one wee fella, Kamal. He's only ten and every morning he walks twenty-five miles to the nearest well.

Orla: Does he just really enjoy wells, aye?

Erin: Twenty-five miles? How far is that?

Clare: Far.

Erin: Like, how far are we talking? From here to Buncrana?

Clare: Further. It's more like from here to Ballybofey.

Erin: Shut up. From here to Ballybofey? Sure you'd be knackered.

Clare: Kamal is knackered.

Erin: Are you sure Kamal isn't exaggerating?

Clare: Stop slagging off Kamal. Kamal doesn't have it easy. Now will you sponsor me or not?

Erin: Fine! (empties bag of pick and mix)

Dennis: Ah! (runs over to pick and mix) You touch them, you buy them. That's the law.

Erin: I don't think that is the law.

Dennis: (angry) If I say it's the law, it's the law, smart hole!

Erin: Right, it's just I can't afford them anymore. Have to give all my money to Kamal.

Dennis: Who the fuck's Kamal?

Orla: He's a wee Ethiopian fella from Ballybofey, Dennis.

(Erin looks embarrassed.)

Clare: (excitedly holds up flyer and pen) Do you want to sponsor me, Dennis?

Dennis: (furious) Get out!

(All three girls run out of shop.)

[Outside the shop. Erin, Orla and Clare stumble out. David Donnelly is putting up posters.]

Erin: Good one, Geldoff! (sees David) Oh my God. David. David Donnelly. Okay, just act normal. (laughs dramatically and starts walking) No way. Are you serious?

Clare: (concerned and confused) What are you doing? Who are you talking to?

David: Erin, have you got a light?

Erin: Me? No, I don't smoke. (whispers to self) Why the hell do I not smoke?

Orla: I have one. (throws lighter) I don't smoke either. I just like melting stuff.

(David looks confused.)

Erin: Cool poster.

David: Oh, do you think so? (lights cigarette)

Erin: Yeah. Really nice use of, you know, letters.

David: Thanks. You should come along tonight.

Erin: You're inviting me to your gig?

David: Yeah, well, all of you.

Erin: (smirks) But you'd specifically like me to go. I mean, just so we're clear.

(Erin stares deeply into David's eyes.)

Orla: But Erin, 'Murder She Wrote' is on tonight. You never miss 'Murder She Wrote'.

(Erin's expression changes into annoyance.)

Erin: (whispers) Shut up.

(Clare frantically runs up to Erin.)

Clare: We're going to be late.

David: Yeah. Kicks off at six.

Erin: Sweet. Cool. Maybe I'll see you there then.

(Clare drags Erin away quickly.)

(Orla stares at David, opening and closing her fists. David throws lighter and Orla catches it. She follows Erin and Clare.)

[At the bus stop. Erin, Clare and Orla pass a bus beside the river.]

(Orla follows with her arms in the air, pretending to be an aeroplane.)

Clare: (panicky) You're not seriously going to his concert, are you?

Erin: Gig, Clare. It's called a gig, and I have to go. He invited me specifically.

Michelle: (getting out of the bus that the girls just passed) Motherfuckers!

(Erin, Clare and Orla turn to face Michelle.)

Michelle: (walking towards the other girls) 'Motherfucker', it's my new thing. Watched this film last night. My Da got it off Pyro Pauline, and it's about these two lads, and they wear these crackin' suits and they rock about just shooting people and eating cheeseburgers, and they're all “motherfucker” this, “motherfucker” that. It's got your man in it. Awk, what do you call him? The disco dancer from 'Look Who's Talking'.

(James awkwardly and quietly stands behind Michelle.)

Erin: (staring at James awkwardly) Who owns the fella?

Michelle: (turns to look at James) Me. Well, come on then ball-ache. Are you introducing yourself, or what?

James: (nervously waves) Hi. I'm Michelle's cousin, James.

Orla: (quietly talks to Erin in a scared tone) Why's he making that funny noise?

Michelle: He's English, Orla. That's the way they talk. He's my Auntie Kathy's wain. I told you about my Auntie Kathy. She went to England years ago to have an abortion, never came back. (points at James) Never got the abortion either. Lucky for you, James, eh? Ha! (slaps James in the face)

(The girls walk towards the bus.)

James: (looks disconcerted) I didn't actually know that.

(James starts following the girls to the bus.)

Erin: What did he say?

Michelle: Nothing interesting.

Erin: What's he doing here?

Michelle: Kathy's just got divorced, so she's moved back. The husband caught her doing the dirt on him. She's a bit of a goer, is our Kathy. Riding rings around him, so she was. (turns to James) Isn't that right James?

(James looks uncomfortable and upset.)

Erin: No, I mean here, at our bus stop.

Michelle: Aw, he's going to our school.

Erin: But he's a fella. An effeminate fella, but a fella all the same.

Michelle: Everyone was shitting it about sending him to the boys' school. They were worried that the lads would beat him up because, well…

All: He's English.

Michelle: And you couldn't really blame them, I suppose.

(James looks offended.)

Michelle: Our carriage awaits, motherfuckers.

(Everyone steps onto the bus.)

[On the bus. Michelle takes Avon catalogues out of her bag and hands them out to people as she walks towards the back of the bus.]

Michelle: Avon. Avon. Avon. We have a wee offer on there for hair removal cream, if you want to, with the… (gestures towards random girl's moustache area)

Erin: There's no seats down here.

Michelle: Just move them wee dicks. (gestures towards first years sitting at the back of the bus)

Clare: (shocked) What?

Michelle: Why should we sit up the front? We're fifth years. They're foetuses. Come on. (drags Erin)

Michelle: (to first years) All right, shift your short holes. Let's go.

(Most first years get up from their seats.)

Tina: Nobody move.

Michelle: You better do as I say, or…

Tina: Or what?

Michelle: Or there'll be consequences.

Tina: Such as?

Michelle: We'll, we'll beat you up.

(Erin looks horrified.)

Clare: (whispering) Wonderful.

Erin: Really, Michelle?

Tina: Go on, then.

Michelle: What?

Tina: Beat me up.

(Orla looks shocked.)

Michelle: Well, not now.

(Clare looks terrified.)

Michelle: After school. We'll beat you up after school.

Tina: Grand. I'll meet you after school, and you can beat me up.

Erin: What's happening, exactly?

Tina: I'll bring my sister, Mandy. You might know her. Mandy O'Connell. She's in upper sixth.

Erin: (looks scared) Big Mandy? Big Mandy's your sister?

Tina: That's right.

Erin: (whispers) Retreat.

Michelle: Listen, I think there's been a wee bit of a misunderstanding.

Tina: Thought you might say that. Now fuck off.

(All the girls turn away in a fluster.)

Michelle: Right. Will do.

Erin: Well, that wasn't at all humiliating.

[Time lapse.]

(Clare stares longingly at Orla eating food.)

Erin: How long does this fast last?

Clare: Twenty-four hours. So I still have… (looks staggered) almost twenty three hours to go.

Michelle: Fuck me, not the Africans again.

Clare: Imagine being born there and not here. We don't know how lucky we are.

Michelle: Aye, fair dues. Derry is class.

Orla: It is, aye.

(The girls look relaxed and content. James looks anxious as he looks out the window.)

(Soldiers stop the bus and climb on with guns.)

Soldier: Everyone remain seated.

(Erin yawns. Soldier walks down the bus checking each row of seats.)

James: (looking panicked) What's going on?

Michelle: I dunno. But do you think if I told him I had an incendiary device down my knickers, he'd have a look?

Erin: Michelle. He's a soldier.

Michelle: Ach, some of them are rides. I'm willing to admit it, even if nobody else will, because I'm a beacon of truth, Erin.

Erin: You're a mouth, that's what you are.

[At Our Lady Immaculate College. Michelle, Erin, Clare, Orla and James are walking down the corridor. Jenny appears.]

Jenny: Hi guys!

(Everyone looks disinterested.)

Jenny: Could I just have a quick chat? (points at James) You must be new. (shakes James' hand) I'm Jenny. Great hair. Very… bold. I'd love to go that short but sure, I don't have the bone structure.

Michelle: He's a fella, Jenny.

Jenny: Oh, I see. Anyhoo…

Michelle: (mocking) Anyhoo. Seriously, shoot me in the face.

Jenny: This is a bit awkward, but part of my role as prefect is welcoming the first-year students. And it's come to my attention that there was some sort of an incident on the bus this morning.

Michelle: There was no incident.

(Clare looks anxious.)

Jenny: Apparently, you guys threatened one of the new girls. Said yous were gonna beat her up.

Michelle: That's lies.

Jenny: There were quite a few witnesses.

Michelle: No, I mean, we said it but… as a joke. As in, “We're gonna beat you up.” But like, in a jokey way.

Jenny: Right. Well, the thing is, that's not actually funny, is it? Like, at all.

Clare: Well, humour is so subjective really, so…

Jenny: Now, the wee girl claims that she's not bothered, but reading between the lines…

Erin: Why are you reading between the lines?

Jenny: I'm just not so sure that I believe her. I don't want to report you guys.

Clare: (frantically) Please don't report us, Jenny. Please! We'll do anything. Anything at all.

Michelle: (pulls Clare back) Speak for yourself, sugar tits.

Jenny: Think I'll just have to mull it over.

(Clare looks terrified.)

Michelle: Ach Jenny, mull this over. (puts up middle finger)

Jenny: Oh, I see.

Clare: Jesus, Michelle!

(James looks overwhelmed.)

[In the assembly hall. Jenny is on stage.]

Jenny: A new school can seem like a very scary place.

Clare: (whispering) Do you think Big Mandy looks more schizo than usual?

(Clare and Erin turn to look at Big Mandy, who stares back.)

Jenny: But try to think of it this way. Right now, you're like a little seed, and the school is like the soil. A safe and stable environment, within which you can grow.

(Aisling pretends to water soil with a watering can, and pulls up a fake flower.)

Aisling: Wow, what a great way to look at it.

(Jenny smiles and nods arrogantly.)

Jenny: Thank you.

(All students stare at her blankly.)

Sister Michael: (walking up to microphone) Thank you girls. Some lovely sentiments there. Some very beautiful words. Unfortunately, that's all they are – sentiments and words. What you've just witnessed is a piece of fiction. The reality, I'm sorry to say, is much harsher. Far more brutal. So let me take this opportunity to advise all our new girls to keep their guard up. Watch their back. Oh, speaking of pupils who need to watch their back, I'd like to introduce James Maguire. Show yourself please, James.

(James anxiously raises his hand.)

Sister Michael: James will be the first ever boy to study here at Our Lady Immaculate College. He was due to start at Christian Brother Boys but there were concerns for his safety, because, unfortunately, James happens to be English.

(Everyone laughs.)

(James looks uncomfortable.)

Sister Michael: But let me make one thing clear. I will not have a repeat of the Mr. Mullin affair. Is that understood?

James: (whispering to Michelle) What's the Mr. Mullin affair?

Michelle: Student teacher. Two fourth-years cable-tied him to the monkey bars and started dry riding him. He was really good looking, so you've nothing to worry about.

Sister Michael: Let us pray. Father, Son…

[By the lockers.]

Erin: Please, Michelle.

Michelle: No. I have no interest in David Donnelly's spazzmo band.

(Erin looks devastated.)

(Michelle eats food.)

Clare: (longingly) They look nice.

Erin: I can't go on my own.

Clare: Are they nice?

Michelle: Bring Bobby Sands. (points at Clare)

Clare: Sure, how could I go? I'm so weak I can barely walk.

Michelle: What about Orla?

Erin: Orla's…

Orla: (staring lovingly at her fingers) I love my wee fingers.

Erin: Orla's mental. Come on Michelle! I'm begging you! It's my big chance with David. I'd do it for you.

Michelle: Fine.

(Erin's face lights up with excitement.)

Michelle: But we both know you're gonna sit in the corner like a frigid fuck.

Erin: (looks annoyed) I'm not frigid.

Orla: You've never even kissed a boy before. You practice on your pillow sometimes, but you don't think that's the same.

Erin: The reading of the diary was bad enough. I could do without the quoting it from memory!

James: Michelle, would you mind showing me where the toilet is?

Michelle: You are really starting to do my head in, do you know that?

Announcement: Will the following pupils please report to Sister Michael's office immediately. Erin Quinn, Orla McCool, Clare Devlin, Michelle Mallon, and the wee English fella. Thank you.

(Orla looks horrified. James looks confused.)

Michelle: Wonder what that could be about?

[Outside Sister Michael's office. The four girls sit.]

Erin: It wasn't bullying. It was attempted bullying.

Clare: What if we get expelled?

Michelle: Nobody ever actually gets expelled. Wanda Gallagher hasn't even been expelled, and she's in the IRA.

Erin: So that's probably why.

(James approaches.)

James: I can't find the boys' toilets anywhere.

Michelle: It's an all-girls school, dick face. There are no boys' toilets.

James: So should I just use the girls' toilets?

Michelle: No you should not, you fucking pervert.

Clare: (panicking) Girls, I really don't feel great. I feel sort of shaky. I think my blood sugar is dangerously low.

Erin: Seriously, will you just have a Mars bar?

Clare: What about Kamal?

Michelle: Fuck Kamal.
(Chair creaks from Sister Michael's office. Clare suddenly grabs the other girls.)

Clare: Look, whatever happens in there, we have to stick together, okay? We have to back each other up!

(Sister Michael opens the office door.)

Sister Michael: Ladies.

[Inside Sister Michael's office.]

Clare: So it had nothing to do with me! Yes, okay, I was there. I admit that, but I didn't do anything. It was Michelle. It was all Michelle. I'm not going down for something I didn't do. If anyone deserves to get punished, it should be Michelle.

(Everyone stares at Clare.)

Sister Michael: Well I think it's safe to say, we all just lost a bit of respect for you there, Clare.

(Clare looks embarrassed.)

Sister Michael: This is just so disappointing, girls. I mean, threatening a first year.

Michelle: We didn't threaten her. We're not stupid. Big Mandy is her sister and she's half fucking gorilla.

Sister Michael: That's quite enough, Miss Mallon.

Orla: Aye, you shouldn't swear Michelle, because when you swear, our Lady in heaven, she cries her tears and then make rain. Isn't that right, Sister Michael?

Sister Michael: What age are you now, Orla?

Orla: Fifteen.

Sister Michael: Yeah. You might want to think about wising up.

Erin: It was all just a misunderstanding. I promise, Sister.

Sister Michael: Is that right, Tina? Was it a misunderstanding?

Tina: Look, I didn't even report them. I'm not a grass. I'm saying nothing.

Sister Michael: Is that because you're intimidated by them?

(Tina scoffs)

(Sister Michael stares at her seriously.)

Tina: Oh, you're serious. No. I'm not intimidated by them, Sister.

Sister Michael: Okay. Well, I see no need to take this matter any further, but if I ever get wind of something like this happening again…

Erin: Oh you won't, Sister.

(Clare vigorously shakes her head.)

(James raises his hand.)

Sister Michael: Yeah?

James: Sister Michael, can I just quickly ask, um, since there's no male student toilets on the premises, am I permitted to use the staff ones?

Sister Michael: Absolutely not. Now, I think you all owe Tina an apology, don't you?

(Tina pompously turns to face the group.)

All: We're very sorry, Tina.

Sister Michael: Now Tina, do you accept their apology?

Tina: No.

Sister Michael: You don't accept their apology?

Tina: Do I have to accept their apology, Sister?

Sister Michael: I don't suppose you do, no.

Tina: Then I don't. I don't accept it.

(Michelle, James, Orla, Erin and Clare stand awkwardly.)

Sister Michael: Well I need to draw a line under this somehow, so…

[In the detention room. The group are sitting with Sister Declan at quarter past six in the evening.]

(The clock ticks.)

Erin: I cannot actually believe this. I'm missing David Donnelly's gig, Michelle.

Michelle: And all because of that miniature motherfucker.

Erin: (whispers) I swear, if you say 'motherfucker' one more time…

Michelle: What's wrong with you?

Erin: This is your fault.

Michelle: Why is it my fault?

Erin: You're the one who threatened a first year. You're the one who gave Jenny Joyce the finger.

James: (looking anxious) I'm desperate now. This is agony.

Michelle: Can you please stop crying in my face for five fucking minutes, James?

Clare: I feel awful. I think my body's going into starvation mode. I think it's starting to shut down.

Michelle: For Christ's sake, Clare. You've just basically skipped lunch.

(Orla happily reads Erin's diary.)

Erin: Orla, that better not be what I think it is. You better not have brought my diary to school!

Orla: I had to. I'm doing my book report on it.

(Erin leaps out of her chair and tries to grab the diary from Orla. Orla holds on tight.)

Sister Declan: What's going on there, girls?

Erin: She has my diary, Sister, and she won't give it back.

Sister Declan: I'll take that.

(Erin crosses her arms angrily. Orla passes the diary to the nun.)

Sister Declan: Sit down.

(James raises his hand.)

Sister Declan: Mr. Maguire. You have been warned. Do not ask me again.

James: This is disgraceful. I should have access to a lavatory. What about my civil rights?

Sister Declan: Corner.

(James angrily stands in the corner. Michelle applies lipstick.)

Sister Declan: (to Michelle) Give that here.

Michelle: Ach, sister…

Sister Declan: Now.

(Michelle passes her lipstick to Sister Declan. Sister Declan puts it in her handbag.)

Michelle: Shouldn't you put that in the confiscated box?

Sister Declan: Quiet.

(Sister Declan begins to read Erin's diary.)

Erin: Really?

Michelle: What am I going to do, Erin? That colour's been discontinued.

(Sister Declan eats sandwich. Clare stares desperately at the sandwich.)

Clare: This is torture.

James: (looking desperate) Michelle, I can't hold it in any longer.

Michelle: What part of me not giving a flying fuck are you struggling with, exactly?

(Sister Declan lies with her face in Erin's diary.)

Michelle: Oh, look. Your boring fucking diary sent her to sleep. I'm taking my lipstick back.

(Michelle gets up from her seat.)

Clare: Michelle, you can't do that. It's stealing.

Michelle: She stole it first.

Clare: Michelle, don't.

(Clare and Orla also get out of their seats and approach Sister Declan.)

James: Oh, God.

(James runs to the bin and urinates in it.)

Erin: Jesus that's disgusting. Stop it.

(Clare stuffs her face with Sister Declan's sandwich.)

Michelle: That's the English for you. Fucking savages.

(Clare looks guilty. Erin looks horrified.)

Clare: Don't look at me like that, Erin. You'll get your two pound back. (continues eating)

Michelle: But will you ever get your self-respect back, Clare?

(Erin gets up out of her seat.)

Erin: Right, if I leave now, I might still catch David.

Clare: (anxiously) What if Sister Declan wakes up?

(Erin begins climbing out the window. James continues urinating.)

Orla: (holding Sister Declan's head up) It's funny how she sleeps with her eyes wide open, isn't it?

Erin: (half-way out the window) What?!

(Sister Michael walks into the room. Orla, still holding the dead nun's head, turns to her in shock. Erin, still half-way out the window, James, still urinating, Clare, eating the sandwich, and Michelle, rummaging through Sister Declan's handbag also turn to her in shock.)

Sister Michael: Sweet suffering Jehovah.

(James groans and continues urinating. Everyone turns to face him awkwardly.)

[In Sister Michael's office.]

(Knock on door.)

Sister Michael: Enter.

(The parents walk in.)

Mary: Erin, what in God's name?

Gerry: Did you kill that wee nun, girls?

Erin: Of course we didn't.

Sarah: Then why were you pissing on her dead body and making sandwiches?

Granda Joe: Say nothing, girls. Say nothing til we've seen a lawyer.

Sister Michael: If you could all just take a seat.

(They sit down. Deidre storms in.)

Deidre: Sorry I'm late, Sister. Couldn't get over the bridge. This bloody bomb. I begged the Brits to let me take my chances, but the awkward bastards made me go the long way.

Granda Joe: Health and safety gone mad, Deidre.

Deidre: What are you playing at, rifling through a dead nun's handbag?

Michelle: She stole my lipstick, Mammy.

Deidre: Don't lie. Sister Declan was a woman of God.

Sister Michael: Actually, she was known to be a bit light fingered.

James: Where's my mum, Auntie Deidre?

Deidre: She's away back to London.

James: What, without me? (tears in his eyes)

Deidre: Oh, dry your eyes, James.

(Clare's dad walks in.)

Clare's dad: Sorry to keep you waiting, Sister. How long does it take to defuse a fecking bomb? Sure the wee robots do all the work. Oh killing nuns now, is it?

Clare: (frantically) I didn't, Daddy!

Clare's dad: You wait until your mother hears about this.

Sister Michael: Obviously, Sister Declan's death was extremely shocking and unexpected. We're still struggling to understand exactly what happened.

(Erin raises her hand.)

Sister Michael: Yeah?

Erin: Can I just ask, what age was Sister Declan?

Sister Michael: She'd have been ninety-eight on Friday.

Erin: Right. Might that shed some light on the situation?

Sister Michael: How so?

Erin: Does anybody else have any thoughts on the whole her being almost ninety-eight years of age thing?

Granda Joe: (sadly) Struck down in her prime.

(Erin looks confused.)

Sister Michael: The hospital are saying it was heart failure, but I have my doubts. As I said on the phone, the circumstances in which I found her body were… strange, to say the least. So I've decided to carry out a full investigation into the incident.

Mary: (nodding) That makes sense.

(Sister Michael nods.)

Erin: What? Nothing about this makes sense? The woman was almost ninety-eight years of age. She had a heart attack. Why is everybody going absolutely mental?

Gerry: Less of the cheek, Erin.

(Clare looks distraught.)

Erin: We didn't do anything. It's not fair!

Orla: (Reading Erin's diary) But the thing is, life isn't fair. You see injustice is something I have become accustomed to. I am, after all, a child of the crossfire, surrounded by conflict. But I choose to rise above it. The path to peace is paved with tolerance and understanding. Violence is never the answer.

(Erin looks furious.)

Erin: I am going to ram that so far up your arse!

EPISODE 2

[In the assembly hall. Jenny Joyce and her friends are on stage.]

(Jenny is singing and dancing. Her friends are her backup singers.)

Jenny: (singing) I feel it in my fingers, I feel it in my toes. Love is all around me, and so the feeling grows.

(Clare looks disgusted. Orla dances along enthusiastically. Erin looks bored. James looks shocked. Michelle looks judgmental.)

Michelle: Sweet Jesus.

Jenny and friends: It's written in the wind. It's everywhere I go. So if you really love me, come on and let it show.

Sister Michael: Did I not ban this one?

Woman: Let me see. Uh… 'Endless Love', 'The Power of Love', 'All You Need is Love', 'How Deep is Your Love', 'It Must Have Been Love', 'I Wanna Know What Love is', 'I Will Always Love You'. No, Sister, you didn't.

Jenny: There'll be no end. Cause on my love you can depend. (dramatically sings out of key)

(Orla holds up lighter enthusiastically.)

Sister Michael: (looking uncomfortable) Put it on the list. (stands up) Uh, wonderful, girls. Lovely stuff.

(Orla claps enthusiastically. Everyone else looks bored.)

Sister Michael: Before I dismiss you for the weekend, a few announcements.

(Michelle looks impatient.)

Sister Michael: On Monday morning, several of our year thirteens will face their GCSE maths resit. Now, I know how daunting resit examinations can be, so if anyone is feeling anxious or worried, or even if you just want to chat, please, please, do not come crying to me. Let me see. What else?

Michelle: Come on, come on, come on, to fuck!

Sister Michael: Notice from Mr. Macaulay. This year's destination for the Euro Trotters trip will be, dramatic pause…

(Everyone waits expectantly.)

Sister Michael: Did you actually want me to do the dramatic pause? Interesting. Ah, Paris. It's going to be Paris.

(Clare gasps. Erin smiles dramatically and looks out into space.)

Sister Michael: If you need any further information, there is a stall in the foyer.

(Michelle smiles excitedly.)

Sister Michael: Sadly, I am unable to come on this one, as I despise the French. In the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.

[In the corridor. Erin, Clare, Orla, Michelle and James walk through a door.]

Clare: There's so much I want to do. The Champs-Élysées, the Arc de Triomphe, the Louvre.

Michelle: A French fella. That's what I want to do. Nation of rides. My fanny's going funny just thinking about it!

(Orla sucks on a large dummy sweet.)

Erin: Could you not use that word, Michelle?

Michelle: What, fanny?

Clare: Why do you always have to be so coarse?

Michelle: Ach, what's the big deal? We all have one.

James: I don't.

Michelle: You are one.

Erin: Of course, Beckett lived in Paris, and if anybody's influenced my writing, it is…

Michelle: What, Brenda Beckett from 12A?

Erin: No! Not Brenda Beckett. Beckett Beckett.

Orla: If we go to Paris, I'd like to meet Nicole. (stares at dummy sweet and licks it)

James: Who's Nicole?

Erin: For God's sake. How many times? It's just an ad. She's not a real person. Neither is Papa.

James: Be good conversation practice as well, you know, for the orals.

(Clare nods excitedly.)

Michelle: Which will be the only oral that you…

James: Yeah okay, Michelle!

Michelle: You didn't let me finish.

James: Well, I sensed where you were going.

Michelle: (to Clare) Blowjobs.

(Clare scoffs disgustedly.)

Erin: Oh God. Don't tell me Charlene Kavanagh is going. She is dying about herself. Oh I'm so good looking, oh I'm so popular. If there ever was a more shallow, self-absorbed, generally unpleasant human being…

Charlene: Hi, Erin.

Erin: (flustered) Hi. Good, grand. Not too bad. Can't complain. Is the answer I'd have given if you'd asked how I was.

Charlene: Right. Are you signing up for Paris? I can't convince that lot to come. Looks like I'm going to need someone to hang out with.

Erin: It would be an honour.

Charlene: Okay. Well, I'll see you later, then. (walks away)

Erin: You will, Charlene. Indeed you will!

(Clare waves.)

Erin: (turning to friends) Did you hear that? The Charlene Kavanagh wants to hang out with little old me!

Clare: You know what I admire most about you, Erin? Your unshakeable principles.

(They approach the stall for the Paris trip.)

Jenny: Bonjour. Tout le monde. Comment allez-vous?

Michelle: Wise up, Jenny.

Erin: Where do we sign?

Michelle: (looking at paper) Hold on. Stall the fucking ball. Three hundred and seventy-five quid? Are you for real?

(Orla stares at French flag. Clare looks horrified.)

Erin: What? 375 pound each? Isn't there some sort of group discount?

Jenny: It's not Club eighteen to thirty.

Michelle: More's the pity.

Clare: It is a bit steep, Jenny.

Jenny: Just dip into your trust fund. I do it all the time.

Erin: Our what?

(Orla waves the French flag.)

Jenny: It's like an account your parents set up for you to help pay for things, like University, your first car, educational trips.

Erin: I did not know about this. (to Michelle) Did you know about this?

Michelle: No, did I fuck.

Erin: Trust fund, you say. Interesting.

(Clare looks excited.)

[In the Quinn kitchen.]

(Mary is carrying a laundry basket.)

Mary: Dip into your trust fund? Of course, no bother at all. Pass us in the phone. I just need to ring the bank. Seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. That's the account number. And the password, what was it again? What is it now? Oh aye. Catch yourself on!

(Granda Joe is watching TV with the baby.)

Mary: Da, for God's sake. Will you turn that down?

Granda Joe: I have turned it down. It's at zero.

Ian Paisley on TV: …have an opportunity there!

Granda Joe: I don't know how he does it.

Erin: (to Mary) Are you telling me I don't have a trust fund?

Mary: There you go, you're not as slow as you look.

(Orla looks desperately at Mary.)

Orla: Do I have a trust fund, Mary?

Mary: Listen girls, there are no trust funds! There are no funds, period.

Erin: (leaping onto chair) For God's sake!

(Gerry is writing at the kitchen table. Orla looks over his shoulder.)

Gerry: Okay. That's one portion of red fish, one portion of white fish, two bags of chips.

Granda Joe: No, no, no, no. Two bags won't be enough.

(Joe stands and walks towards table.)

Gerry: Two's plenty, Joe.

Granda Joe: (carrying baby) Four. Four should cover it.

Gerry: Three, then. We'll compromise.

Granda Joe: I'll compromise you through that window.

Mary: That's enough, Da.

Granda Joe: The tight bastard's trying to starve us all, Mary.

Gerry: Okay. Four bags of chips then.

Orla: And I want twelve chicken nuggets, a small battered hotdog, plenty of onions, plenty of…

Erin: Get a move on, Daddy. At that chippy, it's every man for himself on a Friday night.

Gerry: I am trying to concentrate here, Erin!

(Sarah walks in.)

Orla: All right, Mammy?

Sarah: All right, love. Did you ask about the trust fund?

(Mary sorts through laundry.)

Orla: Aye, I don't have one.

Sarah: I take it that means I don't have one.

Mary: For the love of God. (walks away)

Sarah: Will four bags be enough?

Gerry: More than enough!

Sarah: I say we need five, to be safe. Do you not think, Da?

Granda Joe: Stick down five.

Gerry: (sighs in frustration) Five bags of chips, then!

Granda Joe: I'll have a chicken fillet burger. No lettuce, no tomato, no cheese.

Gerry: I'll just write plain, will I?

Granda Joe: No onions, no cucumber.

Gerry: One plain-

Granda Joe: No relish, no pickles, no mayonnaise.

Gerry: No chicken.

Granda Joe: What do you mean, no chicken?

(Phone rings. Orla looks startled.)

Mary: Get that.

(Erin sighs impatiently, and walks towards phone.)

Granda Joe: It's a chicken burger. Of course I want chicken! What are you, a simpleton?

Erin: Hello?

Granda Joe: No chicken!

(Erin runs over with phone.)

Erin: It's Uncle Colm.

Mary: Well, I'm not taking it. I've been stung once already this week. An hour and forty-five minutes talking about his new shoelaces.

Sarah: Sure I've stopped answering my phone altogether for fear it's him, Mary.

Mary: Will you take it, Da?

Granda Joe: No chance, love. I mean I know I shouldn't say this about my own brother, but by Christ, he's a boring bastard.

Erin: Is somebody going to take it or not?

Mary: Don't you be cheeky!

Gerry: Less of the cheek, you.

(Mary grabs phone from Erin.)

Mary: How's it going, Colm?

(Granda Joe sits down in front of the TV again.)

Sarah: Would you ever think of going cordless?

Mary: (on phone) Aye, it was freezing cold earlier, that's true.

Sarah: Gemma Sharkey went cordless, and she's like a new woman now, Gerry.

Mary: (on phone) Naw, it's not as cold now.

Sarah: She can make a call from her living room, from her kitchen, from her bedroom…

Mary: (on phone) Right, look, Colm, I don't have long. We're sending to the chippy here. (impatiently turns to look at family)

Sarah: And the other night, right, and this is no word of a lie, she rang me from the bath. These cordless phones are the future.

Mary: (on phone) What?

(Granda Joe turns interestedly.)

Mary: (on phone) Oh my God!

(Mary lowers phone, looking shocked.)

Gerry: What's up?

Mary: Our Colm's in the police station. Last night two gunmen forced their way into his house, tied him up, stole his van.

Granda Joe: (now standing again) Dirty bastards.

Mary: (on phone) Oh, God love you, you poor critter. You're to come straight round here, you hear me? Oh of course, of course. (puts down phone)

(Everyone looks shocked and concerned.)

Gerry: Is he all right?

Mary: He is traumatized, Gerry. He'll take a steak and kidney pie.

(Gerry writes down Uncle Colm's order while Erin, Orla and Mary watch.)

Mary: Do you think five bags will be enough?

(Gerry looks frustrated.)

[In the chippy. Chips are thrown into the frier.]

Erin: (reading from paper) Seven bags of chips. Twelve chicken nuggets. One small battered hotdog. One plain chicken burger.

(Orla nods along with order.)

Fionnula: Give me that. Move. (grabs list)

Erin: Thank you, Fionnula.

(Clare walks in.)

Erin: All right? Any joy with the trust fund?

Clare: Nah. According to my Ma we're actually quite poor.

Erin: Aye, I think we might be as well.

Fionnula: (to Clare) What's yours?

Clare: (flustered) Uh… (stammering) Can I please get one fish supper and one cowboy special, please Fionnula, thank you please.

Fionnula: It'll be ready when it's ready.

(Michelle and James walk in.)

Michelle: Well, Jenny Joyce was talking through her fat hole about this trust fund thing.

Fionnula: (to Michelle) What's yours?

Michelle: Don't rush me, Fionnula!

(Fionnula looks annoyed.)

Michelle: Where the fuck are we going to get the money for Paris now?

Orla: We could sell our organs.

Clare: We could. We could sell our organs. Or, and forgive me if this is a bit left field, but could we not, you know, get jobs?

Michelle: There are no jobs in Derry. That's all you ever hear anybody say.

Clare: So what are these? (walks over to notice board)

Michelle: I never really looked at this before. I just assumed they were all dead cat posters.

Clare: Missing cat posters.

Michelle: If you're an optimist.

(They all stare at the notice board. Orla has her hands on Erin's shoulders.)

Erin: I'm not sure I'd be suited to any of these. They're all very practical, and I'm just more… creative.

Michelle: You're more of a slabber.

(Random girl pulls contact details off flyer on notice board. Michelle looks at her worryingly.)

Michelle: Fucks sake. I think other people are onto this thing, girls.

Fionnula: (to Michelle) Oy! I'll not ask you again!

Michelle: A large curry butty, Fionnula. And don't be shy with the salt now.

Fionnula: (gesturing to James) What about the wee limey?

Michelle: Well, dicko?

(James looks anxious.)

James: (turning to Fionnula) I'm okay, thanks.

(Everyone turns to James in shock.)

Michelle: What?

James: I don't really want anything.

Erin: You don't want anything?

Michelle: How could you not want anything, it's lovely.

James: I just don't really fancy it, that's all.

(They all look horrified.)

Orla: I don't understand.

Clare: Are you not feeling well, James?

James: (shouting to everyone in chippy) I don't like it, okay?! It's too greasy! It's much, much too greasy! Even the smell of it makes me feel physically sick!

(Fionnula looks angry.)

Michelle: I'm sorry that you had to hear that, Fionnula. (to James) You're a fucking embarrassment.

(James looks regretful.)

Fionnula: Get him out of here.

Michelle: You heard the woman. (shakes her head)

(James looks sad as he walks out of the chippy.)

[In the Quinn kitchen. Uncle Colm has arrived.]

(Erin looks bored.)

Uncle Colm: There was a knock at the door. This must have been, ah, we're talking eight, half eight, for I was halfway through me dinner.

(Mary, Gerry, Joe and Erin look bored. Orla and Sarah look engrossed.)

Uncle Colm: And up I got to open it. And there they both were, large as life. And the taller fella, though to be fair, there was no more than an inch in it.

Mary: Jesus wept.

Uncle Colm: The slightly taller fella, he says to me, says he, do you know who we are?

(Orla still looks engrossed.)

Granda Joe: How's a body supposed to enjoy his dinner?

Uncle Colm: And I says to him, says I, well I can't be sure now, but maybe if you took off the balaclavas. And then he says to me, the slightly taller fella does, he says, step aside, we're armed.

Orla: Class.

Uncle Colm: And that's when the smaller fella, although as I say, we're talking an inch.

Erin: (whispering) Mammy, make it stop.

Uncle Colm: An inch and a half at most.

Sarah: I need a drink.

Uncle Colm: He has the bright idea of tying me to the radiator, you see. And I remember saying to myself, says I, Colm, it's a good job you have the Economy 7 on the oul timer, or you'd be roasted here.

Sarah: Did you go for the Economy 7 in the end, Colm? I thought you says the hot water settings were a minefield.

Gerry: For the love of God, Sarah, no diversions, please.

Mary: Aye, come on, let's pick it up. They tied you to the heater.

Uncle Colm: They did indeed. And there I am, shackled to the thermostatic valve with me new shoelaces, when one of them, the smaller fella, or hang on, maybe it was the…

Gerry: Doesn't matter, Colm.

Uncle Colm: Well, it was one of the two. He's looking for the keys to the van. All ranting and raving and getting himself all worked up.

(Erin looks miserable.)

Uncle Colm: Threatening to set fire to my good chaise longue and all sorts. By Jesus, they were absolutely desperate to borrow thon van.

Mary: Colm, they didn't borrow your van. They stole your van, used it to move arms across the border, and then they blew it up.

Uncle Colm: Aye. Nightmare altogether.

Erin: Or diabolique, as they say in France.

Mary: Or, you're still not going to Paris, as they say in Derry.

Sarah: Ach, well, I'm delighted for you Colm.

Gerry: (confused) What?

Sarah: Well, I just mean that, well, before, he had nothing really going for him, but now, well, now he is somebody. Now he's the fella that got tied to his own radiator.

Uncle Colm: Thanks Sarah.

Sarah: We should ring UTV, get them to do an interview. When Shauna Sharkey was interviewed, do you mind the time where her and her brother got hijacked, well, Fionnula gave her free chips for a month.

Mary: (shocked) You're joking.

Sarah: Honest to God.

(Doorbell rings. Erin immediately jumps up.)

Erin: I'll go.

[Outside the Quinn house. James, Michelle and Clare stand, as Erin opens the door.]

Clare: (furious) You will never guess what she's done this time, Erin.

Erin: Did she nick the noticeboard from the chip shop, Clare?

(Michelle holds the noticeboard. Clare looks furious as Michelle looks impressed with herself.)

[By the river. The group stands with the noticeboard.]

Michelle: Fionnula was out the back, cashing up. I sneaked in, yanked it off the wall, and away I went. I was like a thief in the night.

Clare: (scoffing) You weren't like a thief in the night. You actually were a thief in the night. And you stole from Fionnula of all people. Fionnula! I once saw her punch a Rottweiler, Michelle! If she finds out about this, she'll kill you!

Michelle: Kill us. You're an accessory after the fact now, my friend.

Clare: (looking like she's going to cry) God!

Erin: Can I ask why you stole the noticeboard?

Michelle: So we get first dibs on all the jobs.

James: Wouldn't it have been easier to just remove the notices? They're only blu tacked on.

Michelle: (defeated) Fuck off, dickweed.

Erin: Christ, what possessed you Michelle?

Michelle: Yeah… The more I talk about it, and the more I sober up, the less sure I am, really.

Clare: You were drunk?!

Erin: Brilliant!

Michelle: Look, we're not like Jenny Joyce. Nobody's just gonna hand us things. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't have things. Come on, Clare. (approaches Clare) I know how much you've dreamed of seeing the Arc de… whatever the fuck it's called. (turns to James) James, I know how much you want to practice the shit out of the past participle. (turns to Orla and puts arm around her) Orla, you really, really buzz off those Renault Clio ads.

(Orla nods happily.)

Michelle: (walks over to Erin) And you, Erin. Well, you're just riding Charlene Kavanagh.

Erin: I'm not riding her. I just think it might be time I moved on, friendship-wise.

Clare: (furious) You are aware you're talking to your current friends?

(Michelle runs up onto the bridge.)

Michelle: We can't give up on Paris. Let's do this, girls. Let's just make it happen!

Erin: God, I've never seen you so fired up.

(They all look motivated and excited.)

Michelle: I will buck a French lad, Erin. I will buck a French lad, so help me God!

(Orla throws her arms in the air excitedly.)

[In Erin's bedroom. Erin stands in front of noticeboard while Clare, Orla, James and Michelle sit and watch her.]

Erin: (holding a notebook and pen) So, firstly we have the tutoring, and out of everyone, I thought you might be best suited to that, Clare, because…

Clare: I'm the brightest.

Erin: Well, in that conventional sort of way, I suppose.

(Clare looks angry and offended.)

Erin: There is also some babysitting. The child will be in bed, so you should just about be able to manage that, Michelle.

Michelle: (sarcastically) Oh thanks! And you should just about be able to manage this. (gives finger)

Erin: (appalled) Always the lady. There's also some gardening, mowing the lawn, et cetera. This will require a bit of muscle, so…

(James smiles.)

Erin: You should take that one, Orla.

James: (offended) No. I should do that one. It's a man's job, Erin. I'm a man.

Michelle: That's debatable.

James: Well, I'm more of a man than Orla.

Orla: (offended and appalled) I do not accept that.

James: Come on Erin.

(Erin rolls her eyes.)

Erin: Fine.

(James smiles.)

Erin: So that leaves dog-walking and washing a car.

Orla: Is it a Renault Clio?

Erin: No.

Orla: I'll take the dogs.

Erin: (smiles) Okay. Let's go to work.

(Everyone looks motivated and ready.)

(They all dramatically walk down the Quinn stairs and out the front door.)

[On the street. They walk in slow motion, confident. Van drives up beside them.]

Fionnula: You thieving wee fuckers! (she drives away)

(Everyone looks shocked and worried.)

[In the Quinn living room. Erin, Michelle, Orla, Clare, James and Fionnula sit. Mary stands.]

Michelle: (to Fionnula) How did you find out?

Clare: Doesn't matter how she found out, Michelle. That's not what's important. What's important is the fact that we are all deeply-
Fionnula: (pointing at Clare) Her mother rang me.

Erin: (shouting) You told your ma?!

(Erin and Michelle look disgusted.)

Clare: Okay. I cracked. I couldn't handle it, and I cracked.

Michelle: For fucks sake, Clare.

Mary: Enough! (to Fionnula) Where do we go from here?

Fionnula: Mary, look. You're family. Well, you're good people. Well, you're decent people. But I have to set an example.

Mary: No. Dear God, no. You're not talking about a ban.

James: (happily whispers) Yes!

(Everyone else looks distraught.)

Fionnula: Let's call it a suspension. I'm sorry, Mary.

(Sarah walks in.)

Sarah: Ach, Fionnula. What about you? I thought I could smell vinegar. I'm just on my way to meet our Colm here. I'm a nervous wreck. We're doing this interview you see, for UTV. I'm going to be on UTV, Fionnula.

Mary: Save your breath, Sarah. There'll be no free chips. (angrily) There'll be no chips, full stop.

Sarah: Excuse me?

Mary: What do you expect me to do on a Friday, Fionnula? Cook? You expect me to cook?

Fionnula: (shrugs) You could order a pizza.

Orla: (shakes her head) Pizza is not as nice.

Mary: No. You are right, Orla. Pizza is not as nice. Maybe you should have all thought about that.

(The kids look guilty.)

Mary: (looking upset) Is there nothing we can do?

(Fionnula looks thoughtful.)

[At the chippy. It is closed. Michelle, Clare, James, Erin and Orla are inside wearing aprons.]

Michelle: So, not only are we not going to Paris, we're spending our Sunday scrubbing Fionnula's fucking fish hole for free.

Erin: Aye, and she'll be back from yoga soon, so get a shift on.

Michelle: It's slave labour, Erin.

Orla: It's worse than slave labour. We're not even getting paid.

Erin: Look, Mammy had to cut some sort of deal.

James: Would living without fried food really be so bad?

(They all look offended.)

All: Yes!

(James looks taken aback.)

Michelle: She wouldn't actually have banned us. She was bluffing.

Clare: She's not bluffing, Michelle. Didn't she ban the McGuigan twins?

Michelle: Seriously?

Orla: Sure that's how they lost all the weight.

Michelle: (defeated) Right, girls. No dicking about. (stands on counter) We need to get this place fucking spotless. (puts on apron)

[Compilation of them cleaning unsuccessfully.]

(Michelle lights cigarette.)

Michelle: Fuck this. (walks away)

(Orla sprays bleach on her neck like perfume.)

Erin: (shocked) It's… still sticky. How? How is it still sticky? Is it worse than when we started?

Clare: (looking around) I think it might be, yeah.

Erin: (furious) Great.

(Clare looks scared.)

James: Oh I see. (holding mayonnaise) Yeah. This isn't Windolene. This is… (sniffs) This is mayonnaise.

Erin: (sarcastically) Great work, folks. Absolutely brilliant. Well done, everyone! It's been a productive morning! (kicks rubbish) Fionnula will be absolutely thrilled!

(Music blares from upstairs. They stop in shock.)

(Erin, Clare, Orla and James walk upstairs.)

[In Fionnula's living room. Michelle is dancing and drinking alcohol.]

(Orla looks excited and immediately starts dancing.)

(Erin angrily turns off the music.)

Michelle: Boo!

Clare: (terrified) Where'd you get all this? (gesturing towards multiple bottles of alcohol sitting on the table)

Michelle: Fionnula's cupboard. I think she might have a bit of a problem!

Erin: You think Fionnula might have a bit of a problem? (furious) Put it away and get back downstairs now!

(Michelle pours another drink.)

Michelle: Ach sit yourselves down, have a wee drink!

Clare: No, Michelle! It's wrong!

Michelle: So are those ski pants Clare, but that didn't stop you pulling them over your hole this morning.

(Clare looks down at her ski pants, offended.)

Michelle: Wait for it.

(Michelle lights the shots of alcohol on fire.)

Clare: Michelle!

(Orla looks amazed.)

Michelle: Don't be such a shower of bore bags!

(Clare looks terrified as Michelle picks up the tray of shots.)

Michelle: Sláinte, motherfuckers.

(Everyone looks anxious. The tray wobbles.)

Erin: No, no, no, no, no!

Michelle: Fuck! Fuck! Fuck!

(Michelle drops the tray and the rug lights up in flames.)

(Clare gasps.)

(The flames spread to the curtains as Michelle looks worried. She throws alcohol over the flames in an attempt to put out the fire.)

Erin: Are you throwing alcohol on it? Are you actually throwing alcohol on it?

(Clare squeezes sauce over the flames.)

Erin: And what in under God are you doing? Seasoning it?!

(Orla blows on the flames.)

(James runs over with fire extinguisher and sprays it on the flames.)

James: Wow.

(Clare coughs.)

Michelle: On a scale of one to ten, how dead do you think we are?

(Erin and Clare look angrily at Michelle, as Michelle looks guilty.)

[Time lapse. The TV is on and Mary and Sarah have arrived.]

Uncle Colm: The taller fella, well, it was one of the two.

(Mary looks furious.)

Uncle Colm: Anyway, he says to me, says he…

(Orla, Michelle, Clare, James and Erin all sit on the sofa.)

Erin: It's the truth, Mammy.

Mary: Erin, if you expect me to believe that Michelle tripped while carrying a scented candle, you must think I came up the Foyle in a bubble.

(Sarah is watching herself on TV.)

Sarah: It's my bit! It's my bit!

Mary: What are we gonna do?

Sarah: Oh, for God's sake, Mary, would you look? You're missing my big moment.

Sarah: Two gunmen of roughly the same height, kicked his door down and tied him to the radiator with his own shoelaces. He barely had those shoelaces a week, John. They threatened him with physical violence. They threatened to burn his house down before manhandling…

(Mary has an idea.)

(Erin reads her mother's expression with worry and curiosity.)

[Time lapse.]

(Mary and Sarah are tying the kids to the radiator with their shoelaces.)

Erin: Why would two gunmen break into a chippy?

James: (annoyed at Sarah) Ah! That really hurt!

Michelle: You're such a pussy.

Erin: What were they looking for?

Orla: Chips, obviously.

(Clare looks tortured.)

Mary: They were looking for the keys to the van. Keep up, Erin. (clicks her fingers in Erin's face)

Sarah: Do you think we should knock them about a bit?

(Orla nods her head in agreement.)

Mary: No!

Sarah: Nothing drastic. Just a few slaps.

(Erin looks worried.)

Mary: I said no, Sarah.

Sarah: What, not even the wee gay fella?

James: I'm not gay.

Mary: (finishes tying the kids to the radiators) Okay. That should do it. Ready?

(Sarah nods.)

Clare: (panicking) I hate to be a health and safety stickler, but surely you're not actually planning on leaving us like this, are you?

(Door slams. Footsteps.)

(Sarah and Mary look at each other in shock.)

Mary: (whispering) Back door? Back door. Back door. Hurry up.

(Mary and Sarah quickly leave the room. The kids look anxious.)

(Fionnula walks in with her yoga mat, in shock.)

Mary: (from outside the room) Push it! Push it! Push it!

Sarah: (from outside the room) I'm pushing! I'm pushing it!

Mary: (from outside the room) Pull it! Pull it!

Sarah: (from outside the room) It's locked!

(Everyone looks worried.)

(Fionnula looks angry as Mary and Sarah walk back into the room.)

Fionnula: What the fuck's going on here, exactly?!

Mary: Okay. Um, all right. Well, what happened was… (points at Michelle) Michelle was carrying this scented candle.

(Fionnula looks at her questioningly.)

[In the Quinn kitchen. The family are eating pizza.]

Granda Joe: It's just not as nice. (throws pizza)


EPISODE 3

[In Erin's bedroom. Erin, James, Michelle, Orla and Clare sit.]

Erin: (staring at photo of Granda Joe and Toto sadly) I just can't get my head around it. The fact that he's gone… forever.

Clare: (studying and drinking energy drink) It's so sad, it really is. It is so, so sad. But at the same time, what's done is done, so let's crack on. (gestures towards her study notes)

Erin: (distraught) Well, I'm sorry, Clare. Has his sudden, tragic death interrupted your studies?

Clare: (takes sip of energy drink) It has a bit, actually, yeah.

Erin: (staring at photo) How can you be so heartless?

Orla: Don't cry, Erin. He's in a better place now. Unless he's not, you know, because unless he's gone to hell. (points upwards)

(Erin looks appalled.)

Michelle: Can be please talk about something else? I'm half torn. This is wrecking my head.

Erin: What? Have you been drinking?

Michelle: Yes I have. And for future reference, if any of you invite me to a study sleepover again, and I'm desperate enough to accept that invitation, there's a good chance I have a litre bottle of Pernod in my bag. (screws lid off bottle)

Erin: I shouldn't even have to sit the exam, on, you know, compassionate grounds.

(Michelle takes drink from bottle.)

Clare: He was a dog, Erin! (throws can)

Erin: (looking upset) Toto was much more than a dog. Toto was my best friend. (holds photograph up for all to see)

Michelle: Christ, I feel a bit bokey. (gets up)

(Clare wipes her face and continues drinking another energy drink while studying.)

(Michelle pulls the curtains. Light streams in.)

Clare: (frantic) Sweet suffering Jesus! It's the morning already?! What are we going to do?!

Michelle: Maybe we could start with calming the fuck down.

Clare: Calm down? We're still on William of Orange, Michelle! We haven't so much looked at the famine!

Michelle: We've got the gist. They ran out of spuds. Everyone was raging.

(Orla looks satisfied with Michelle's explanation.)

James: Well, I can't tell my rebellions from my risings.

Michelle: And whose fault is that? If your lot had stopped invading us for five fucking minutes, there'd be a lot less to wade through, you English prick.

(James looks upset.)

Clare: (panting) Nothing's going in! Nothing is going in, and every time I try to make notes, it…

(Clare stares, horrified, at her shaking hand.)

Clare: (whispering) What's happening to me?

James: There's quite a lot of caffeine in those, Clare. How many of them have you had?

Clare: (staring at her can) I don't know. Five? Twenty-three?

(She throws her empty can into a large pile of other empty cans.)

Michelle: (laughs) We are all so fucked.

[In the Quinn kitchen. The kids are eating breakfast.]

Granda Joe: Now, more bacon anyone? Another sausage? Wee omelette maybe? Anything at all? It's absolutely no bother.

(Clare is drinking another energy drink.)

Gerry: (reading newspaper) I'll have a cup of tea, Joe.

Granda Joe: Make your own tea.

Gerry: (taken aback) Yeah, I'll do that.

(James walks in, putting on his tie. Granda Joe looks concerned.)

Granda Joe: You stay over too, son?

James: Yes, I did. That's correct, sir.

Granda Joe: (looking at Erin) What? In your room?

(Erin is eating toast, looking worried.)

Granda Joe: Have you nothing to say about this, you slack southern shite?

(Gerry looks worried.)

Granda Joe: Look, I know the fella's gay…

James: I'm not gay.

Granda Joe: But gay or not…

James: Who said I was gay?

Granda Joe: He's still a fella. (staring at James) There's still a good chance that he's a rapist. I mean no offense, son.

(James looks scared.)

(Door opens and closes. Mary walks in with a spade.)

Mary: Well, that's that done.

Granda Joe: God rest his wee soul.

Sarah: Ach don't talk to me. I was in bits last night. Didn't even manage my Chinese. Poor… Tonto.

Erin: (offended) Toto. His name was Toto, Aunt Sarah.

Sarah: (smoking) Aye, nightmare so it is. Da, do us a bacon butty, would you? My stomach thinks my throat's cut here.

Granda Joe: Surely, love.

Gerry: Jesus, the pets are getting it left, right and centre at the minute. Maureen Melarkey's Tigger passed away.

(Granda Joe slams the frying pan.)

Granda Joe: We do not utter that woman's name in this house.

Mary: (drinking a cup of tea) Ach, Da, not the bingo thing still.

Granda Joe: She's a cheating oul bitch.

Erin: How can you cheat at bingo, Granda?

Granda Joe: Her nephew brought her this pen back from New Jersey. It changes the numbers. I'm telling you, it's witchcraft, Mary.

Mary: We'll hear no more about the magic pen. Now come on, girls, eat up. You'll need all your energy for the big exam.

Clare: (frantically) We'll need a miracle for the big exam. (drinks energy drink)

Erin: Mummy, what happened to Toto, it's just hit me so hard and I'm worried, it might affect my performance.

Mary: Ach, come here, love.

(Erin looks accomplished. She gets out of her chair and walks over to Mary.)

Mary: Look, if you fail the exam, I promise you, there'll be a nice wee plot out there with your name on it.

(Orla looks entertained.)

[On the street. The kids walk up a hill.]

Erin: It's abuse. That's what it is, it's abusive. Does anybody have 10p? I'm ringing Childline.

Michelle: You can't ring Childline every time your ma threatens to kill you, Erin.

Clare: Yeah, you can't waste Esther's time like that.

Michelle: And anyway, you're not alone. We're all going to fail. We're all going to get our holes kicked and we're all in the same boat.

Clare: (shouting) I don't want to be in that boat! (spills energy drink) I want to be in a different boat, sailing down a totally different river.

(Orla walks away from the splashes of energy drink.)

James: Guys, all we can do is try our best.

Michelle: Ach, don't be such a fruit, James.

Erin: (shocked) Oh, my God. Look.

(A soldier is petting a dog on the street.)

Erin: Doesn't that dog look like Toto?

James: I suppose it does a bit, yeah.

Erin: Looks exactly like him. (pats knees) Here, boy!

(The dog doesn't respond and Erin begins running over to him. He runs.)

Erin: Come here, boy! Here, boy!

(Orla follows Erin, with her arms up pretending to be an aeroplane. The others run behind.)

Erin: Here, boy! Here, boy!

[On another road. They continue running.]

Orla: What are we doing?

Michelle: I dunno. I'm still pished.

Orla: Aye!

Clare: We're going to be late, Erin!

Erin: But it's freaky. Don't you think it's so freaky?

Clare: No! It's just a dog that looks a bit like another dog!

Erin: Quick, come on!

(Church bell tolling. The dog runs into the church and the kids follow.)

[In the church. Maureen Melarkey is praying.]

Erin: Where did he go?

Michelle: I don't really give a flying fuck.

Maureen: (stands up) Listen, you.

Erin: Yes, Mrs. Melarkey?

Maureen: You give that grandfather of yours a message from me. You tell him to keep his bloody mouth shut about my pen!

Erin: (looking terrified) Okay.

(Maureen dramatically walks away.)

Maureen: And I want my baking tray back!

(Clare is praying to a statue.)

Michelle: Of course. Trying to butter up the big woman.

Clare: Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among-

Erin: Oh, now you'll definitely pass!

Clare: It was worth a try!

Erin: Aye.

(They all kneel and begin praying.)

Michelle: I'm not gonna bother with any “never sin again” material, because let's face it, we've been there before. You know it's balls, I know it's balls.

(Clare gasps.)

Clare: Oh, my God.

Michelle: What is it?

Clare: She… She… I saw it with my own eyes.

Erin: Saw what?

Clare: (pointing at the statue) She smirked!

Michelle: Who, big M?

Clare: Aye. She just smirked at me.

Erin: Are you sure you didn't just-

Michelle: Jesus! Me, too! She just smirked at me too.

(James looks at the statue in amazement.)

James: Why isn't she smirking at me?

Erin: She isn't smirking at anyone, James.

Orla: I just saw it too! The holy smirk, thanks be to God!

Erin: You're imagining it.

Michelle: Three of us saw it, Erin. How do you explain that?

Erin: (at Clare) Sleep deprivation. (at Michelle) Pernod. (at Orla) Delusional personality disorder.

(Dog barking. Erin turns to see the dog upstairs.)

Erin: There you are.

(Dog continues to bark. Erin runs upstairs.)

Erin: Here, boy! Here, boy! I mean, it's uncanny.

Michelle: Okay. Let's do it together. Everyone look away.

(Michelle, Orla, Clare and James look away.)

Michelle: Right. So, on three…

(Erin finds dog peeing. Michelle counts down.)

Erin: No, no, no, no, no, no, no! I mean, have a bit of respect.

(Michelle finishes counting down and the kids turn to face the statue. They gasp.)

Michelle: No way!

(Dog runs away. Erin feels defeated.)

Erin: What now? (she runs back downstairs)

(They all stare at the statue in amazement.)

Clare: She's crying. She's crying real tears.

(The dog pee runs down the statue's face. Erin looks guilty.)

Erin: Oh, God, please. Oh, God. No, this is bad.

Clare: (crying) I said we needed a miracle, and behold, we have been given one.

Erin: This isn't a miracle, Clare.

Clare: The exam, Erin!

Michelle: Fuck the exam. Sorry.

Erin: Listen-

Michelle: This is huge, Clare.

Erin: The thing is-

Michelle: Do you really think they'll make us sit an exam after seeing this?

Erin: You may have a point.

Michelle: Of course I have a point. We are the motherfucking children of Fatima, people!

(They celebrate. Erin looks guilty.)

[In Sister Michael's office. The kids sit around her desk.]

Sister Michael: (on phone) Could you put me through to Sister Thomas, please? (smiles) Tommy! How are you? Yeah, not too bad. On retreat? (tuts) I don't know. I have judo on Friday. Don't like to miss it. Now, I'll tell you why I'm ringing you. So, we've had an alleged apparition here this morning. Well, it's in the weeping statue category. Sure, I know. Yeah, apparently there was a smirk as well. (chuckles) I mean I'm not sure what Our Lady of the Sorrows has to be smirking about, but that's by the by.

(Woman opens the door.)

Woman: Sister, priest is here.

Sister Michael: (on phone) I'll call you back. (moves phone and stands up) Just a moment, ladies. (walks out)

Erin: Listen, girls. I didn't really think beyond the exam, or us getting out of doing it. Before this goes any further, before we talk to this priest, there is something I think you all need to know.

(Door opens.)

Sister Michael: Come in, Father.

(They turn towards the door. Handsome priest walks in in slow motion. They look amazed.)

Michelle: Fuck me.

Orla: I like his shiny hair.

James: So do I. I really like his shiny hair.

Clare: What were you saying, Erin?

Erin: (intrigued) Nothing. Ignore me. Forget it.

Father Peter: Hello, children.

(Erin gazes hungrily at him.)

All: Hello, Father.

Father Peter: Please. Call me Peter.

Sister Michael: (rolling her eyes) Christ.

[Time lapse.]

Father Peter: This is just going to be a very relaxed, informal chat.

(Erin and Michelle smile giddily.)

Father Peter: I don't want you to think of me as a priest. Think of me as a friend. Look… (removes collar)

(The girls gasp softly.)

Father Peter: Just like you now.

Sister Michael: (looking bored) Dose.

Father Peter: So, before we begin, do you guys have any questions for me?

(Erin raises her hand.)

Erin: Is that your real eye colour or are they contacts?

Father Peter: These are my real eyes.

Erin: Oh. (smiles flirtatiously)

Peter: Anyone else?

(James raises his hand.)

Father Peter: Yes, James?

James: Is that a firm-hold gel you're using there? (points at hair)

Father Peter: It's a mousse.

James: And where do you-

Father Peter: Hair and Flair. (nods)

James: Oh, I didn't realise-

Father Peter: They do a men's range, yes.

(James looks amazed.)

Father James: Anyone else?

(Michelle raises her hand.)

Michelle: Have you ever done any modelling, or..?

Father Peter: No.

(Michelle looks impressed.)

Father Peter: Does anyone have any questions about what happened in the church this morning?

(Orla raises her hand, looking blank.)

Erin: No, I don't think so.

Michelle: No.

Orla: No.

James: Not really.

Clare: No. (shakes her head)

Father Peter: So you claim you saw our Blessed Lady's features change? Is that right?

Orla: The Virgin Mother smirked at us, Peter. Yeah, that is correct.

Father Peter: I see. And after that, the statue, well, you claim it started weeping.

Clare: You're using the word 'claim' a lot there, Peter.

Father Peter: Girls, I'm not here to make any judgments. I'm just trying to get the truth.

Clare: (annoyed) You think we're lying, don't you?

Father Peter: No, of course not.

Sister Michael: I do.

Father Peter: But sometimes we want to believe in something so much, that we willingly deceive ourselves. I mean, I know I've been guilty of that in the past. I wanted a sign so badly that it drove me to distraction, because it is the question we all want the answer to, isn't it? I mean, does God exist? I mean, does he exist?

(Clare looks shocked and confused.)

Father Peter: Does he?

(Sister Michael looks fed up.)

(Father Peter gazes off in distress.)

Father Peter: Or is your whole world built on a lie, Peter?

James: Peter?

Father Peter: Yeah.

(Peter comes out of daze.)

Father Peter: Directly before the weeping, can you remember what you were doing, what you were talking about?

Michelle: (raising her hand) I remember that James was being a dick.

Sister Michael: Miss Mallon.

Michelle: I don't like to use that word, Sister. But it's so hard to describe James any other way, because he's just such a dick.

(Sister Michael looks satisfied. James looks upset.)

Father Peter: I don't think you're a dick, James.

James: Really?

Father Peter: Really. And do you know who else doesn't think you're a dick? (points up) Our Lord.

Sister Michael: (rolling her eyes) For feck's sake.

Michelle: Uh, how do you know our Lord doesn't think he's a dick?

Father Peter: Our Lord doesn't think anyone's a dick.

Michelle: I very much doubt that.

Father Peter: Well, it's the truth.

[Time lapse.]

Michelle: Marti Pellow.

Father Peter: No.

Michelle: Paddy Ashdown.

Father Peter: (looking frustrated) No.

Michelle: Your man from Fun House.

Clare: Pat Sharp?
Michelle: Pat Sharp. Pat Sharp's definitely a dick.

(Clare nods.)

Father Peter: Okay.

(Michelle and Clare look at each other satisfied.)

Father Peter: The five of you attending chapel, praying together, would that be a typical morning?

(Clare looks disgusted. Michelle laughs. Father Peter turns to her.)

Erin: He's not joking, Michelle.

Michelle: Oh. Christ, fuck no. We were just following that stupid dog.

(Erin looks worried.)

Father Peter: I'm sorry?

Erin: The dog has nothing to do with anything.

Clare: See, Erin's dog died recently and she saw one that sort of looked like him a bit.

(Orla blesses herself.)

Erin: The dog's irrelevant.

Clare: So we followed him for a while. This dog…

Erin: The dog and the statue are unrelated.

Clare: And he led us to the chapel.

Father Peter: The dog led you to the chapel?

(Clare nods.)

Erin: The dog isn't important.

Father Peter: Maybe it is. What if this dog you saw, Erin, what if it didn't simply look like your dog? What if it actually was your dog?

(Clare and Orla look shocked.)

Erin: (scoffs) Right. Maybe. But, as I think we mentioned, Toto's dead. My ma saw him get hit by an army Land Rover and then buried him in our back garden, so probably not.

(Father Peter stands up suddenly and flicks through book.)

Father Peter: A beloved animal, returning from the dead. Now, we've seen this before.

Orla: (raising her hand) Ohhh, ghost dog!

Father Peter: No, not ghost dog. Resurrected dog.

(They all look shocked.)

Father Peter: don't you see? Toto was sent back to lead you to that chapel, to that statue. Because you're special Erin. You have been chosen.

(Erin smiles dramatically.)

Erin: Oh, Peter. It's all just so overwhelming.

Sister Michael: (looking suspicious) Hmm.

[In the Quinn living room. Granda Joe, Mary, Gerry, Sarah, Orla, Erin, Sister Michael and Father Peter are gathered around.]

Mary: Here's what I find strange. You're in that chapel every single Sunday, yet this message from on high comes on the very day you happen to have an exam, which I know for a fact, you haven't as much as even opened a book for.

Sister Michael: I find that very strange as well, Mrs. Quinn. Very strange indeed.

Erin: What are you suggesting?

Mary: If you are lying, Erin, so help me Jesus…

Erin: I'm not lying. (scoffs at Peter)

Mary: Swear. Swear on Dolly. (points at picture of Dolly Parton)

Erin: Orla saw too.

Mary: Orla's easily led.

Orla: (raising mug of tea) Aw thank you, Aunt Mary.

Father Peter: Look, I'm sure you all must have questions.

(Sarah raises her hand.)

Sarah: I have a question.

Father Peter: Yes?

Sarah: How do you stay in such good shape? (laughs) Is it exercise? Diet?

Father Peter: Combination of both.

(Sarah nods happily.)

Mary: I also have a question, pretty boy. Why are you encouraging all this?

Father Peter: I wouldn't say I'm encouraging it, I'm just open to the possibility.

Mary: Well, I'm not. Not unless I see some cold, hard evidence.

(Sister Michael nods in agreement.)

Father Peter: And maybe it's there. Proof at last, Peter, proof at last.

Mary: Is he all right?

Sister Michael: I wouldn't say so, no. He's a priest, like.

Father Peter: Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here but is risen. Come.  Come see the place where the Lord lay. God is inviting us to be his witness.

(Erin smiles.)

Father Peter: We must look in the burial place.

Mary: What's he saying?

Gerry: I think he's saying he wants to dig up the wee dead dog's grave.

Mary: What?

Erin: What?

Sister Michael: (disgusted) Fecking weirdo.

(Doorbell rings, knock at door. Orla looks startled.)

Erin: (gets up) I'll go. I'll get it.

(Orla follows Erin. Mary looks worried.)

(Erin opens the front door. Michelle, Clare and James stand. Clare looks worried. Michelle and James look excited.)

Michelle: It is mental out there. Everybody's talking about us. Dennis gave me free pick and mix, bonbons and all. No fucking about, like.

(Erin and Orla step aside to let them in.)

Michelle: We're basically celebrities now. We're like The Corrs.

Orla: Can I be Jim?

Clare: It's too much, Erin. I can't handle it. I think I'm going to crack.

Erin: Okay, look. This has got way out of hand. (to James) What are you wearing?

(James stands in fully black suit with mousse in his hair.)

Michelle: What did I say? You look like a fucking ballbag.

Orla: Your hair's all funny. (reaches out to feel James' hair)

James: (pushing Orla away) I just put a bit too much mousse in it, that's all.

Erin: Listen girls-

James: Get off me!

Erin: Will you listen?! It was piss!

Michelle: What was?

Erin: The tears on the statue. Well, I actually have good reason to believe they were actually dog piss.

James: No, you're not serious.

Erin: Deadly serious.

Clare: Sweet and gentle Jesus. I mean, that sort of makes sense. I'm not even sure I saw her smirk anymore. I've had a lot of caffeine.

Michelle: I definitely didn't see her smirk. I was lying, so…

James: Excellent.

Erin: I was going to tell you all earlier, but then Peter showed up, and there was just this instant connection, like a spark.

Michelle: There was no spark, Erin.

(Orla shakes her head.)

Erin: He said I was special.

Michelle: He also said your dead pet had been fucking resurrected, so you know, pinch of salt.

Erin: Yes, and now he's talking about digging him up, and when he does, he'll realise that Toto has not, in fact, been resurrected. He'll realise that Toto is just dead. Very, very dead. And we've all been talking shite.

Clare: (hysterical) We need to tell the truth, now.

Michelle: No fucking way. This is the best thing that's ever happened to me. (grabs Clare) Look Clare, take a long hard look at that. (holds out free pick and mix)

(Orla tries to take some sweets. Michelle pulls away quickly. Orla shrugs and drinks tea.)

Michelle: And this is only the beginning. The Derry Journal are on their way round. They said we could make page five.

Clare: (panicking) Erin, tell her!

Erin: Yeah, we could tell the truth. But I sort of like the fact that Peter thinks I'm the chosen one, so…

Clare: (still panicking) James!

James: I have a slight concern. The truth might affect my friendship with Peter.

Clare: You don't have a friendship with Peter.

James: Yes I do. We have a lot in common, Clare.

Clare: Like what? I mean apart from the fact that you appear to be wearing his clothes?

James: No, the fact that we're both very spiritual, but mainly the fact that he doesn't think I'm a dick, and neither do I.

Clare: (panicking) Come on, people! The jig is up!

(Everyone turns to Erin.)

Erin: Doesn't have to be.

[In the Quinn garden. Everyone is digging.]

(Clare looks into the distance in shame.)

Clare: What's become of us? What has become of us?

Erin: Keep an eye on that kitchen window, you.

Clare: I want no part of this.

Erin: Well, you're in too deep now, Clare.

Clare: We're stealing a body!

James: Let's just get it over with, and never, ever speak of it again.

Michelle: (looking at her nails) Jesus Christ, my nails are fucking ruined.

Erin: Less talking, more digging!

Orla: I've got something! (pulls out box and blows mud)

Erin: Give it here. (takes box)

(Michelle shakes her head in shame.)

Erin: Right. Me and Michelle go stash him somewhere, and the rest of you will fill it back in.

(James nods.)

Father Peter: Open the box, Erin!

Michelle: Oh God!

(Clare jumps.)

(Orla happily sits holding the cross.)

Faher Peter: Yes, he is with us. Do not be afraid, child.

(Erin nervously opens the box.)

(Clare gasps loudly.)

Erin: Listen, I can… (she looks down and sees that the box is empty) Oh no, actually, I can't. I can't explain.

Father Peter: (looking relieved and joyful) Thanks be to God.

(James smiles and looks to the sky.)

James: Thanks be to God!

(Orla holds up the cross.)

[In the Quinn kitchen. The empty box is on the table.]

Erin: I don't understand it.

Father Peter: The Lord's work is often difficult to comprehend.

Erin: No, I mean I really, really don't understand it.

Mary: You're right, Father. He has risen. (gestures to the sky)

(Erin looks suspicious.)

Mary: It's truly a miracle.

Sarah: So, what happens now Peter?

Father Peter: Well, I think the next stage is Rome. Audience with the big man.

(Erin and Mary stare at each other.)

Orla: Pavarotti?

Gerry: John Paul the second.

(Orla smiles)

Father Peter: But first let us pray. Please, join hands. (tries to take Sister Michael's hand)

Sister Michael: I don't want you to touch me.

(Mary walks away in a fluster.)

Erin: Excuse me. (follows Mary)

(Mary is talking on the phone.)

Mary: (on phone) It is vital you keep a low profile for a bit. Do you hear me, Melarkey?

(Erin walks in. Mary stalls.)

Mary: It was nobody!

Erin: Well you could at least wait til I've asked.

Mary: Ach, give my head peace, Erin. Get back inside.

Erin: Why are you calling Maureen Melarkey? Granda says we're not allowed to speak to her.

Mary: Aw, that? That's all blown over, now.

Erin: (opening door and shouting in) Maureen Melarkey!

Granda Joe: Don't you mention that lowdown, deceitful, cheating, oul witch!

(Erin closes the door.)

Erin: Why were you ringing her, Mammy?

Mary: It's none of your business.

Erin: Fine. I'll ask her myself. (picks up phone)

Mary: Stop it, Erin.

Erin: Redial. (creepily laughs)

Mary: It was only her answer machine anyway.

Erin: Sshh. (listens to phone)

Maureen: Hello. I'm sorry to miss your call.

Mary: See? Now hang up.

Maureen: If you would like to leave a message for Maureen.

Mary: Hang up, Erin.

(Barking.)

Maureen: Toto. We'll get back to you as soon as we can.

(Erin looks shocked. Answering machine beeps. Mary looks guilty.)

Erin: You gave Toto, to Maureen Melarkey?

Mary: Wee Tigger had just passed. She was lonely.

Erin: The chapel. She was there. That dog was Toto. Oh it's all adding up now, isn't it Mammy?

Mary: It was all for the best, Erin.

Erin: You staged his death, Ma. I thought I'd lost him.

Mary: Well you have lost him. We're not taking him back.

Erin: What?!

Mary: ah, come on. He's a shit dog.

Erin: Toto was not a shit dog.

Mary: Well, he was no Gypsy.

Erin: Stop it! I'm sick of it. You can't compare every animal you have to the dog you had when you were five years old.

Mary: I can and I will.

(Doorbell rings.)

Mary: You're not going to tell your granda are you?

Erin: Well, I'm going to need some time to think about that.

(Mary looks scared.)

[Outside the Quinn house.]

(James, Erin, Orla, Michelle and Clare pose dramatically for newspaper photographer.)

(Camera shutter clicks.)

Photographer: Lovely, and another one. Beautiful. And another one.

(Erin sees Peter.)

Erin: I'll be one minute.

(Erin puts on her blazer, takes the pick and mix, and walks towards Peter.)

Erin: Bonbon?

(Peter stares at her blankly. She takes a sweet.)

Erin: What a day. (chews awkwardly on sweet) God, this is really hard.

Father Peter: Aw, it's been incredible.

Erin: Were they always this hard?

Father Peter: You know, to tell you the truth Erin, I've been having a bit of a crisis of faith recently.

Erin: Is that so? (keeps trying to chew) Seriously it's like a jawbreaker.

Father Peter: It's been very challenging.

Erin: Really? Sorry, I'm going to have to spit this out. (spits out sweet)

Father Peter: And you know, it became more challenging, when I met this amazing girl.

(Erin stares at Peter deeply, in shock.)

Father Peter: There was just this…

Erin: Connection?

Father Peter: Exactly. You know, made me question everything, doubt everything.

(Erin stares at him uncertainly.)

Father Peter: I mean who knows, if God hadn't sent me this sign, I might have left the priesthood to be with her.

Erin: What if he didn't?

Father Peter: I'm sorry?

Erin: Send you the sign, I mean. Just for argument's sake.

Father Peter: Well, he did, Erin. You know, I could never abandon him now.

Erin: It's not true. (she smiles intensely)

Father Peter: What?

Erin: We're lying. We've been lying. There was no smirking, no weeping. The dog's not even dead. He's living with Maureen Melarkey. None of it's true, Peter. It's all balls! But the good news is, you're free. We're free. We can be together. (smiles intensely)

(Peter stares furiously. Erin continues smiling. Peter walks away.)

(James runs over as Erin's expression changes to regret.)

James: Peter, Peter, Peter. Where are you going? Peter, wait. I've got the most amazing news. I've had a calling. I've decided to follow  in your footsteps. I've decided to serve God. (smiles)

Father Peter: Don't be such a dick, James.

(James looks upset.)

[In the school corridor.]

Michelle: So he's just going to pack in the priesthood, like completely?

Erin: Well you can't exactly go part-time.

(Clare looks furious.)

Orla: (sucking a lollipop happily) All because of us.

Erin: Not all because of us, Orla. I mean, a bit because of us. But mostly because it turns out he had a connection with one of the colourists in Hair and Flair, who does our Sarah's forwards, by the way. And apparently she's a dirty tramp.

(Michelle smiles.)

Erin: So, you know, good luck with that, Peter.

Michelle: At least your ma was all right with Dog Piss Gate. I thought she was going to go fucking nuts.

Erin: (looking impressed with herself) Let me put it this way. I have locked my mother in a cage designed by her own hand. Oh, she has been well and truly hoist by her own petard.

Michelle: (confused) Could you put it another way? I didn't understand a word of that.

Erin: I'm sort of blackmailing her.

Michelle: Oh, happy days.

(Orla stares intensely at her lollipop.)

Clare: God, it's all so mortifying!

(James walks through door of corridor.)

Michelle: It'll all blow over soon.

(Clare looks furious.)

James: Have you seen this? (holds up newspaper)

(James passes the newspaper to Erin. Clare looks at it with worry. Front page of newspaper is a photograph of them with the headline 'Wicked Hoax'.)

Erin: Jesus Christ.

(Clare gasps and closes her eyes in humiliation.)

Michelle: No, this is good. 'Wicked' means 'good' in England, doesn't it James?

James: (thoughtful) But we're not in England, are we, Michelle?

(Orla stares into space, oblivious to what's going on.)

Michelle: And my tits look amazing in that top. (chuckles)

Erin: Well, sure, that's the main thing.

(Door opens, Sister Michael appears.)

Sister Michael: Ladies.

(They all unhappily walk into the exam room.)





















EPISODE 4

[In Church. There is a banner reading, 'We Welcome the Children of Chernobyl'.]

 Father Conway: A reading from the Holy Gospel. 

Orla: Which one's ours?

Erin: She didn't send a photo. Her family probably don't even own a camera. She'll find Derry a bit overwhelming at first, just because of how advanced everything is here. All the cracker stuff we have.

Orla: They have some pretty cracker stuff where she comes from too, Erin.

Erin: Oh really? Like what? Disease? Poverty?

Orla: No. You can get this wee woman made of wood, right? You pull her apart, and inside her there's an even wee-er wooden woman, and you pull the wee-er wooden woman apart-

Erin: Are you talking about Russian dolls?

(Sarah puts money in the basket and takes out change.)

Gerry: What are you doing?

Sarah: Taking my change.

Gerry: Sarah, you don't get change.

Sarah: Aye, dead on, Gerry. I'm gonna give them a whole fiver? That's definitely happening.

(Granda Joe winks at a woman.)

Mary: Did you just wink?

Granda Joe: No.

Mary: You did. You just winked.

Granda Joe: Sure winking's not in my notion, Mary. What would I have to be winking about?

Mary: I don't know. But I'll find out.

Father Conway: This is the word of the Lord.

(The congregation sit down.)

Father Conway: And today we welcome some very special guests. The wains from Chernobyl, who've come over to give their wee lungs a bit of a clear out, because, ah, sure, there's all sorts wafting about in their neck of the woods. (to Sister Michael) Sister.

Sister Michael: Lovely job so far, Seamus, but you know, keep it moving. (stands up) Rawhide's on in fifteen minutes. Now, one might well question the wisdom of sending you here, of all places. Out of the frying pan and into the… well maybe not the fire but certainly a different type of frying pan. Or some sort of wok at the very least. But please, don't worry yourselves too much about the whole civil war, sectarian conflict carry on. There's really only one thing you need to know. We're the goodies. Welcome to Derry.

[On the street. The whole Quinn family and Katya walk.]

Erin: It's class, isn't it?

Katya: (unamused) Hmm. It is much how I imagine.

Erin: Oh, because of my letters? Well, descriptive narrative has always been a strong point-

Katya: No, not your letters. I see on news.

Erin: What do you mean, you've seen on news? You don't have news in the Ukraine. You don't have televisions.

Katya: Yes, we do.

Erin: No, you don't.

Katya: We do.

Erin: Really?

Katya: Of course.

Mary: Erin, stop hogging the Russian.

Gerry: Yeah, come on Erin. Will you give Orla a go.

Erin: She's Ukrainian actually.

Sarah: Yeah, go on, love. Say something to Katya.

Orla: Your name sounds a bit like 'cat'.

Sarah: (amazed) God aye, so it does.

Granda Joe: You don't know a Jack McGinley, do you? Moved to Moscow, 88, 89, it would have been.

Erin: Seriously?

Katya: No.

Granda Joe: Stocky fella.

Katya: No.

Granda Joe: Curly hair. Bit of a lisp.

Katya: I do not know this person.

Granda Joe: Ah, maybe just as well, love. He's an awful prick.

(Katya does not look amused. Mary smiles at Katya.)

[In Erin's bedroom. Erin and Orla sit with Katya.]

Erin: So, Katya, I've done a bit of an itinerary for your stay. You should have received a copy in my last letter?

Katya: I don't read your letters, Erin.

Erin: (offended) I'm sorry? I don't follow.

Katya: Your letters, they bore.

Erin: They're boring.

Katya: Exactly.

Erin: That's not what I-

Katya: I can smoke here, yes? (pulls out cigarette)

Erin: No. No you can't. (grabs cigarette) Mammy's like a bloodhound.

(Clare, Michelle and James appear at the door, looking interested.)

Michelle: Your ma said we could come up and have a look at the Russian.

Erin: Ukrainian. 

Michelle: Is this her?

(They rush into the room.)

(Orla stares at Katya in fascination.)

Orla: Isn't she cracker? She's half mine.

Erin: No, she's not, Orla.

Orla: Aye, she is. Mammy said so.

Michelle: You're so lucky, Erin. I begged my ma to let me have one, but she said we've no room now that my dickhead, ballbag, English prick of a cousin's moved in. I'm talking about you James, in case you're wondering.

James: Yeah, that much was clear. Thank you, Michelle.

Michelle: Have you seen the one Jenny Joyce got, the fella? Massive, massive ride. I've been thinking. Might be time for me to lose the rest of my virginity. And he's definitely a contender.

(Katya looks uncomfortable and annoyed.)

Michelle: You. Help. Me. You put in good word with your Cossack friend. So we can (makes sex gestures)

Erin: Would you stop that?

Clare: (in Katya's face) I'm very sorry for all your trouble, you know, the whole hoo-ha at the power plant.

Katya: (unamused) Okay.

Clare: When you think about it, we've actually got a lot in common, cause we understand what it's like to be a young person from a troubled place.

Katya: It is not the same.

(Clare looks annoyed.)

Katya: Chernobyl was a terrible nuclear accident. You people like to fight each other, and to be honest, no person really understands why.

Erin: Well, there's actually a political element to it, Katya, and there's a religious element.

(Clare nods. Orla continues to stare at Katya.)

Katya: Mmm, but you're not two different religions here. You're different flavours of same religion, no?

Erin: Well, yes, but, it's a little bit more complicated than that, Katya.

Katya: (looking bored) To me, it's stupid.

Clare: (sudden realisation) Oh my God. It is stupid.

(Katya looks impatient.)

Clare: It is so, so stupid.

(James peers over Clare's head.)

Katya: (to James) Who is this?

Erin: Oh, that's just James.

Katya: You are handsome.

(James looks surprised and happy.)

Katya: And also sexy.

(Erin looks confused and suspicious.)

Michelle: Is her English not great?

(Katya looks bored. She gets up and suddenly kisses James.)

(Everyone watches in shock.)

Clare: What's happening..?

Erin: Why would she do that? Why?

Michelle: Fuck knows. He's minging.

Orla: She seems to be really enjoying it.

(James' eyes are wide as Katya continues to kiss him and run her hands through his hair.)

Erin: Is he enjoying it?

Michelle: It's hard to tell.

Clare: Well, if he's not enjoying it, isn't that sort of sexual harassment?

(James is in a state of shock. Katya is still kissing him.)

Erin: Yeah, we should put a stop to it.

Clare: Aye.

Orla: Does anyone want a Fruit Pastille?

(James is cross-eyed as Clare, Erin, Orla and Michelle continue to watch them kiss while eating Fruit Pastilles.)

[In the Quinn kitchen. They're eating dinner.]

Katya: (blankly) And when Erin finished reading me her poetry, she showed me some old walls.

Erin: (offended) I showed you the walls. I showed you the city walls, and they are nothing short of spectacular.

Sarah: (buttering bread) Ach, if she's not into walls, she's not into walls, Erin, love.

Mary: Have you any news, Da?

Granda Joe: Not really, no.

Mary: Right. Shay Harkin was telling me you were in Duggan's bakery yesterday lunchtime.

Granda Joe: Well, that's hardly news.

Mary: Two buns he says you ordered.

Granda Joe: I often do.

Mary: An apple turnover, and a cream horn.

Sarah: (shocked) A cream horn?

Erin: (shocked) That's not like you, Granda.

Sarah: Sure, you couldn't pay you to eat a cream horn.

Granda Joe: Cream finger, it was. Apple turnover and a cream finger.

Mary: Cream horn, Shay said.

Katya: Horns, fingers, who cares?

Mary: He swore on it. Said he saw it being bagged up.

Sarah: And big Shay has eyes like a hawk, so he does.

(Granda Joe looks caught off guard.)

Mary: Shay said when you left Duggan's, you turned up Pump Street.

Sarah: Pump Street? Who do you know on Pump Street, Da?

Mary: What were you doing heading up Pump Street with a cream horn, Da?

Granda Joe: I was visiting a friend of mine.

Mary: What friend?

Granda Joe: A new friend.

Mary: (raising her eyebrows) A male friend, was it?

(Granda Joe looks guilty and shrugs.)

Mary: Aye, I thought as much.

(Sarah looks shocked. Katya looks bored.)

Mary: Buying cream horns for his fancy woman. Sarah what do you think of that?

Granda Joe: We met at the Stations of the Cross.

Erin: Which station?

Granda Joe: Jesus falls for the second time.

Sarah: (looking traumatised) I could do without the details, Da.

Granda Joe: Maeve and me, we, we just get on well, that's all.

Mary: Maeve? That's her name, is it?

Granda Joe: Yes, that's right.

Mary: Maeve? That's what she's called, is she?

Granda Joe: She is, aye.

Mary: Maeve. Maeve. Really? Maeve?

Katya: Why does your mother make that sound?

Mary: I cannot believe this.

Gerry: I think it's a good thing, love.

Granda Joe: Ach, just keep out of it, you.

Mary: And that's who you were winking at in mass?

Sarah: (appalled) Winking? At your age? Christ, I feel sick.

Granda Joe: It was only a friendly wink.

Mary: There's no such thing as a friendly wink.

Gerry: Is there not?

Mary: Our poor mother is barely cold. (holds Sarah's hand) And you're straight back out there, winking away.

Gerry: Your mother's been dead ten years, Mary.

Granda Joe: Look, I'll not tell you again.

Mary: (stands up) I'm sorry. I seem to have lost my appetite. (walks away upset)

Granda Joe: (to Gerry) You happy now?!

[In Brennans diner. Katya is ordering food at the till.]

Erin: I don't know. I just find her a bit, 'I have a fringe and cigarettes and opinions', and she's also a bit, you know, 'I hate walls' and she's just not-

Clare: Oh, the grateful little peasant girl you ordered?

Erin: Yeah. No. I just don't trust her, okay? And that thing she said about my letters being boring, I really think she's playing some sort of twisted psychological mind game here.

Michelle: Or maybe your letters are just really fucking dull, Erin.

Erin: (defensive) My letters are a gripping read.

James: I'm not comfortable with you talking about my girlfriend like this.

Erin: Ah ha! And she also fancies James. You don't find that a bit weird?

Michelle: Aye, that is a bit fucked up, in fairness.

Clare: Aye, I can't get my head around it. (gazes at James)

Erin: I'm telling you, she's up to something.

Michelle: Even so, I need her to put a word in with that big Russian ride.

Orla: And I really like the fact that she glows in the dark.

James: I'm sorry?

Orla: (obviously) Because of the radiation, they all glow in the dark.

(Everyone has blank expressions.)

James: Right.

Clare: She's also opened my eyes about how we need to break down barriers here, to longer define ourselves as Irish or British, Catholic or Protestant, but simply as human, with human hearts and human heads and human hands and other human qualities, because at the end of the day, we're all… humans. (she looks inspired)

(Michelle looks confused.)

(Katya sits down with her food.)

Katya: Hi.

(She kisses James. Erin looks repulsed.)

(Jenny and her Ukrainian walk in. She has him on a leash.)

Michelle: Incoming ride. I repeat, incoming ride.

Jenny: Hi everyone. This is Artem.

Michelle: (flirtatiously) Well, hello, Artem.

(He looks terrified. Michelle smiles.)

Michelle: (to Katya) Go on, then.

Katya: (moody, in Ukrainian) She wants to have sex with you.

(He still looks terrified.)

Jenny: He doesn't say much.

James: Is he… Is he tied to you?

Jenny: Yeah, he kept wandering off.

(Orla nods in understanding.)

Jenny: Listen, I've a feeling Artem and a few of the others are a bit homesick. I'd be nice for them to spend some time together. So I'm having a bit of a soiree at my place tonight. It's going to be great. I've got a chocolate fountain and everything!

(Orla looks amazed.)

Erin: Well, chocolate fountain or not, I'd actually prefer to keep our Ukrainians separate, so…

(David Donnelly walks in.)

Erin: Oh, Christ, David. David Donnelly's just come in. David's here. Right. Okay. Don't look. Nobody look.

(Orla stares.)

David: (to Jenny) So do you have a playlist for tonight then?

Jenny: I'll need the sound system set up by seven.

Erin: Is your band playing at this thing tonight?

David: Oh Christ no, I just do a wee bit of DJ-ing at the side. Make a bit of extra cash. Wacca-wacca, cha-ching!

(Erin giggles.)

David: Oh, my band, we don't really do covers. Do you know what I mean? In this game, you need a wee bit of integrity.

Jenny: Now whatever you do, don't forget the Grease mega mix.

(David looks ashamed.)

David: Yep. (walks up to till)

Erin: Actually, on second thoughts, I think this party would be really great for Katya. Might help bring her out of her shell a bit.

(Jenny looks pleased and then looks shocked as she sees James and Katya kissing.)

[In Erin's bedroom. Katya is getting ready for the party. Erin walks in.]

Erin: Oh, you look very… (looks shocked) Booby.

Katya: Yes, I like. We go now?

(Erin looks disappointingly at her outfit. Then she sees Katya's bag.)

Erin: Katya!

(Katya doesn't respond so she looks inside Katya's bag.)

Erin: Well, well, well.

[At Jenny Joyce's house. Some girls walk into the house. Disco lights flash and music blares.]

(David Donnelly is DJ-ing. He looks bored.)

(Michelle is drinking vodka. Erin approaches.)

Michelle: Size of this motherfucking house!

Erin: Listen, I think James might be in real trouble.

Michelle: Right. I'm struggling to give a shit, if I'm honest.

(Ukrainian boy approaches.)

Ukrainian boy: Where is Katya?

Erin: I don't know, why?

Ukrainian boy: I must… I must give. (holds up money and walks away)

(Erin looks deeply concerned.)

(Clare walks up wearing a Union Jack t-shirt. She looks pleased with herself.)

Clare: Hi, girls.

Michelle: Have you got a Union Jack splashed across your tits Clare?

(Erin looks appalled.)

Clare: I'm making a point.

Michelle: Is the point 'I'd like to get beaten up'?

Clare: Me wearing this, it should be meaningless. These are just colours and shapes. This flag is not an identity. We need to take the power out of these symbols!

Michelle: Genuine question. Why can't you just be fucking normal?

(Erin nods. Clare looks annoyed.)

(Orla approaches with chocolate all over her face.)

Michelle: Enjoy the chocolate fountain, Orla?

Orla: Very much so.

(Jenny comes down the stairs.)

Erin: Focus, girls.

Jenny: (panicking) Has anyone seem Artem? I untied him for his toilet privileges half an hour ago, and now I can't find him!

(Everyone looks shocked.)

Michelle: What?!

Erin: Listen, I know this might be a bit shocking, but I think Katya is planning on taking James' virginity tonight. I found condoms in her bag, actual condoms! Like I don't even think they're legal in Derry.

Michelle: Wise up, Erin.

Erin: We have to stop her!

(Song starts playing. Orla looks excited while holding her chocolate marshmallows.)

Orla: Yes!!

Clare: Yes!

Michelle: Tune!

Clare: It's our song, girls. It's our song!

(James runs over.)

James: I've lost Katya!

Erin: Good.

Michelle: Let's hit the floor girls!

(They all run to the dancefloor and dance.)

Erin: She doesn't love him. She's just using him. She just wants something to do. But she can't do James. He's not a pastime or plaything.

(James dances in sync with everyone, but looks miserable.)

Michelle: Ach, Erin, if she wants to ride James, just let her ride James. Nobody else is ever gonna want to touch the poor fucker.

Clare: I mean, maybe it's just his time. We're all going to have sex at some point.

Michelle: You probably won't, Clare.

Erin: Aye I can't see that either, to be honest, Clare.

(Clare stops dancing and looks offended.)

(James stops dancing and leaves the room.)

(Michelle sees Artem.)

Michelle: There you are.

(Artem looks terrified.)

Michelle: Oh, playing hard to get, are we Artem?

Erin: Or he could be, you know, just not interested.

Michelle: Come off it!

(Michelle stops dancing and leaves the room. Erin realises James is gone.)

Erin: Shit! James! (she runs out)

[In the Quinn living room.]

Mary: How could he bring another woman into this house?

(Mary picks up a photo of her mother.)

Mary: How could he bring her here, into our mother's home.

Gerry: Your mother never lived in this house.

Mary: Shut up, Gerry.

(Granda Joe and Maeve walk in.)

Granda Joe: Right, come on in there, Maeve.

(Mary looks distraught.)

Granda Joe: Now, these are my daughters.

(Maeve smiles kindly.)

Granda Joe: That's Mary, and this is Sarah.

Sarah: (coldly) Hello, Maeve.

Mary: Maeve.

(Gerry approaches Maeve and shakes her hand.)

Gerry: I'm Mary's husband, Gerry. We're Mary and Gerry, and we're living in Derry. (smiles)

(Maeve chuckles. Joe groans.)

Gerry: (awkwardly) I'll… get the tea going.

Granda Joe: Right. I'll just grab my beads. Be back in a minute.

(Meave nods and smiles.)

Granda Joe: Just make yourself comfortable.

Mary: You'll not have to ask Maeve twice.

(Granda Joe leaves the room.)

Maeve: Sorry, love, did you say something?

Mary: Gerry's name is on the house. Not my da's. If that's what you were thinking.

Maeve: (confused) If what's what I'm thinking?

Gerry: Hobnob? Custard cream?

(Maeve smiles at the biscuits.)

Gerry: Wagon wheel?

Sarah: What age are you, Maeve? Like, thirty?

Maeve: (taking a wagon wheel) I'm sixty-two.

Sarah: Sugar daddy you're after, is it?

Mary: I just want to let you know, Maeve, we'll never call you 'mammy'.

Maeve: (confused) Okay.

Sarah: And I just wanna say, although I'm not happy about this thing with me da, I have to give it to you. That is a cracker blow-dry. Great volume. Lovely movement.

(Maeve smiles. Mary slaps Sarah.)

[In Jenny Joyce's house. Party continues.]

(Michelle is chasing Artem. He runs into a room and tries to close the door. She stops him.)

Michelle: Come on, Artem. You want me and I want you. Let's stop playing these games.

Artem: Look, I don't want any trouble. I'm begging you, just leave me alone, please!

Michelle: Why are you suddenly Irish?

(He looks terrified. She pushes into the room with him and slams the door.)

[Jenny Joyce's house, downstairs by the chocolate fountain.]

Jenny: Queue to the right-hand side, please. One Chupa Chup per person.

(James is putting food on his plate. Erin walks in.)

Erin: James, listen, I have something to tell you, and… (looks at snack table) Ooh, Dip Dab. Okay. I'm just going to say it. I think Katya is planning on having sex with you, tonight. (puts food in mouth)

James: (smiling) I know.

Erin: (shocked) You know?

James: I'm meeting her upstairs in a bit. She told me to have some food first. Apparently, sex uses up a lot of energy.

Erin: (horrified) You do not want to do this, James.

James: Yes, I do.

Erin: You're not ready for it.

James: I am.

Erin: She doesn't love you, James. She's just using you.

James: (lifting more food) Yeah, but the thing is, I don't care.

Erin: I won't let you. I won't let you do it.

James: You can't stop me!

Erin: Fine. In that case, I'll just come and watch.

James: What?

(James walks out of the room and Erin follows him.)

Erin: You heard me, James. If you insist on going through with this, well, I'm- I'm gonna make sure you don't enjoy it.

(David appears in front of Erin.)

David: I'm skiving. Say nothing. Oh, Jenny's a bit of a head melter, isn't she?

(Erin, blocked by David, sees James walking up the stairs.)

Erin: What? Oh, yeah. Big time.

David: I've got some beers, if you fancy a sneaky one.

Erin: Just give me one minute. I just have to… I'll be right back. Just stay here. One minute.

(Erin approaches the stairs and gets stopped by another Ukrainian boy.)

Ukrainian boy: Where's Katya?

Erin: I don't know. Up there somewhere, trying to mount my friend.

Ukrainian boy: (holds up money) I owe.

Erin: (looking shocked) And the plot thickens.

[In the Quinn kitchen.]

Mary: Can you believe him? Flaunting it in our faces like this.

Sarah: I don't even know the man anymore.

(Granda Joe is praying with Maeve.)

Granda Joe: Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death. Amen.

Maeve: Amen.

Mary: (furious) Unbelievable.

Gerry: Jammy dodger?

(Sarah continues staring at her dad and Maeve, while taking a jammy dodger from Gerry.)

Maeve: Blessed art thou, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.

[In Jenny Joyce's house.]

(Erin is running around looking for James. She opens a door.)

Erin: James?

(She closes the door and continues running. She opens another door.)

Erin: James?

(She closes the door and runs again.)

Erin: Is there any need for the size of this place?

(She opens another door, where Michelle sits with the fake Artem.)

Erin: James?

Michelle: (has a phone at her ear, turns to Erin) All right?

Erin: What is going on?

Michelle: Trying to sort Clive out.

Erin: Clive? Who's Clive?

(James runs in.)

James: Christ!

Erin: (repulsed) You dirty, dirty brute!

James: (shocked) I beg your pardon?

Erin: I know what you're up to.

James: (agitated) I'm not up to anything. I should be up to something, but I can't find the person I'm supposed to be up to it with, because this place is like a fucking maze!

Michelle: Shh, you'll scare Clive.

James: Who's Clive?

Michelle: Clive. Clive is a wee prod from East Belfast. Clive came back from Ibiza, got on the wrong bus at Aldergrove Airport, then fell asleep. Clive woke up in Derry, surrounded by Russians and Fenians. Clive is absolutely shitting himself.

Erin: So where's the real Artem?

Michelle: Giant's Causeway, probably.

(James looks confused.)

Michelle: Foreigners fucking love the Giant's Causeway.

(Erin and Clive turn to look at James.)

Clive: (maniacally) I just wanna go home, but she won't let me leave. She won't let me leave!

Michelle: Um, I also think Clive may have had too many disco biscuits on his holidays.

(Clare walks in.)

Clare: Here you are!

(Clive turns to Clare, sees the Union Jack on her t-shirt and suddenly looks relieved.)

Clive: Thank God.

(Clive kneels before Clare.)

Clive: Whatever you do, don't slag off the Pope. (whispers) We're outnumbered.

(Clare looks terrified. Orla walks in with two handfuls of chocolate covered marshmallows.)

Erin: Oh, for God's sake Orla, you're going to make yourself boke.

Orla: I can handle that.

(Katya walks in.)

Katya: James, what is going on? I wait long time. You no longer want to do sex?

James: (desperately) No, no, no, I do want to do sex. I really, really want to do sex.

Katya: Come. (starts walking out)

(James follows Katya out of the room.)

Erin: You disgust me. (she follows them) You should be ashamed of yourself.

James: Piss off, Erin!

(Katya looks annoyed.)

Erin: I mean, I know you're desperate James, but paying for it?

(They turn suddenly.)

James: What?

Erin: You really thought I wouldn't work it out?

James: (looking horrified) Work what out? What the actual cock are you talking about?

Erin: I'm talking about the fact that she's a prostitute!

(Everyone gasps. Katya looks disgusted.)

Katya: (scoffs) I am prostitute?

Erin: Oh, come off it, James. She's charging you for it, isn't she? Just admit it.

James: No. I mean, I don't think so. (turning to Katya) I mean, not that I wouldn't consider it.

Katya: (angry) Ugh! How dare you?

(Jenny walks up the stairs.)

Katya: I am poor Ukrainian, so I must be prostitute.

(Erin runs to the stairs.)

Erin: Hear me out. First, she comes on to James here. What would possess her? Financial gain, that's what.

Katya: He attractive boy, Erin.

Erin: He's English, Katya.

Katya: I have no problem with this.

Michelle: You should.

Erin: Secondly, she owns condoms.

(Everyone looks embarrassed.)

Erin: They're in her bag. A whole packet. I've seen them, people!

Katya: You are imbecile.

Erin: An imbecile. And thirdly, all night, wee Ukrainian fellas have been coming up and giving her money they owe her. How the hell do you explain that?

Katya: I organise, how you say it, whip-round. We like to buy Jenny present to thank her for nice party.

Jenny: (smiling) Oh, you guys!

(Erin looks defeated and embarrassed.)

Erin: Right. Okay. Yeah, that does sort of explain it.

Michelle: Dickhead.

Clare: Really, Erin.

Katya: So not only you insult me, but you've also spoiled Jenny's surprise.

(Erin looks guilty.)

Jenny: (offended) I think you should leave.

Erin: Yeah. But great evening all the same, Jenny. You're a credit to yourself. (walks down the stairs with shame)

(Clare, Michelle, James, Orla and Clive follow.)

[In the Quinn living room.]

Mary: Come on Katya, love. Let's talk about this, please.

Katya: I am finished talking. (points at Erin) She is racist, patronizing bitch.

Erin: I am a racist, patronizing bitch.

Granda Joe: Now, come on girls. Language, please.

Mary: Well, you don't really wanna go to Jenny Joyce's house, do you, love?

Katya: Yes, I do. Apart from anything, it has eight bedrooms and a chocolate fountain.

(Orla licks chocolate off her fingers happily.)

Mary: I hope you're happy, Erin. You've just done us out of a Russian.

Erin: Ukrainian.

(Katya picks up her bag.)

Katya: Good for you, Mr. Joe. She is hot, and you are not dead… yet. Why not have some fun?

(Mary folds her arms angrily.)

(Katya passes her bag to Gerry and they begin to walk out, Katya glaring at Erin.)

(Gerry helps Katya into the taxi while everyone watches from the window.)

Sarah: Tell me this. Does Jenny Joyce's house really have eight bedrooms?

Orla: Aye. And some of the bedrooms, they have these wee, tiny bathrooms attached to them.

(Sarah looks amazed.)

Sarah: Imagine!

(Erin looks guilty.)

[Time lapse. Maeve is leaving.]

Maeve: Your girls, they're just not ready, Joe.

(Joe looks disappointed.)

Maeve: Maybe see you in mass, then, eh?

Granda Joe: Aye.

Maeve: Here, give me your hand. Tell Sarah this is the fella that blow-dries my hair. (she writes on Joe's hand) He's an artist. (she leaves)

(Joe smiles.)

Gerry: Take care.

(Gerry closes the door behind her.)

Gerry: That Maeve away?

(Joe nods sadly.)

Granda Joe: Aye.

Gerry: (nods and smiles) Nice woman.

Granda Joe: Aye.

Gerry: Mary and Sarah will come round eventually, Joe. It's just hard for them to see you with somebody else, you know. As far as they're concerned, their mother was perfect.

Granda Joe: (smiles) Piss off, Gerry.

(Gerry nods and walks away.)

Granda Joe: (picks up photo of his wife) And they're right. You were perfect. (smiles sadly)

EPISODE 5

[On the street. Orange men are practicing for 12th of July parades.]

[In the Quinn kitchen. Banging of drums is causing everything in the house to shake.]

Mary: (dragging suitcase into the room) Already? They've started already?!

Gerry: (carrying baby) I think it's just a rehearsal, love.

Mary: They've been playing the same three songs since 1795. What do they need to rehearse for?

Orla: (banging wooden spoons against her legs like drums) Well, practice makes perfect, Aunt Mary. You know, that is why they are so cracker.

Erin: I'm sorry? Did you just call the Orange Order 'cracker'?

Orla: I'm considering joining.

Erin: I don't think they accept Catholics, Orla. Or you know, acknowledge our right to exist.

(Mary is struggling to close the suitcase.)

Mary: Give us a hand here, Gerry. This'll not close.

(Gerry walks over and tries to close the suitcase.)

Mary: We need to shift ourselves. We're the last Fenians standing!

Granda Joe: Relax, love. We've a good two or three hours before the rioting starts.

Mary: I'll not settle myself until we're over that border, Da.

(Gerry opens the suitcase to reveal a massive clock.)

Gerry: And you're absolutely certain we need the big clock, love?

Mary: We've been through this, Gerry.

Gerry: Definitely don't want to bring the wee clock?

Mary: I can't be doing with the wee clock.

(Orla is still playing with the wooden spoons.)

Granda Joe: What exactly is your problem with the big clock?

Gerry: I wouldn't say I have a problem, as such. It's just much heavier and takes up a lot of room.

Granda Joe: I'm telling you, Mary. That's how it starts. Now he's dictating what size of clock you can pack. Next he'll be telling you what to wear, what to say. Before you know it, you'll be faking your own death, assuming a new identity.

Mary: Erin! I told you not to let him watch that 'Sleeping with the Enemy'.

Erin: Couldn't stop him, Mammy.

Granda Joe: Great show.

Mary: (to Gerry) Stick that in the boot.

(Gerry grunts and tries to lift the suitcase.)

Granda Joe: You'll be as well getting one of the wains to do it. (stands up) Out of the way.

(Granda Joe groans and lifts the suitcase with ease, then walks outside. Mary and Gerry exchange a look.)

Gerry: Right.

(Clare runs in, frantically.)

Clare: Listen to it. I mean, just listen to it! They can't, I mean, they don't… I mean why do they have to be so loud?!

Mary: Breathe, love.

Erin: It's far worse for me, Clare. I mean, my hearing's impeccable.

Clare: (holding up a copy of Moby Dick) I've read the same paragraph forty-seven times, because I can't concentrate because… Oh, my God, the noise! This whale, he's a bad brute, Mrs. Quinn. I have to know if they catch him. Can I come away with you, please?

Mary: Okay, well if your mother has no objections, I don't see why not.

(Clare lets out a sign of relief.)

Clare: Thank you. Thank you. I'll never forget this. Thank you!

Erin: She's taking you to a caravan in Portnoo. She's not giving you a kidney, Clare.

(Sarah walks in.)

Sarah: Listen, Mary. I just did a reading. The cards say if we go on this wee holiday, we're placing ourselves in grave danger, which I'm not buzzing about, to be honest.

Erin: You're not psychic, Aunt Sarah.

Sarah: (holding cards) I am psychic, Erin. I did a course. I got a certificate.

(She places three cards on the table. Granda Joe watches.)

Sarah: Aye, this does not look good.

Granda Joe: Still no sign of the lottery numbers?

Sarah: Naw, Daddy, this psychic carry-on, it's not all it's cracked up to be, you know. Last night, I woke up to this wailing sound.

(Orla stops banging the wooden spoons and looks at her interestedly.)

Sarah: I thought to myself, Jesus it's Granny Pat. She's trying to cross over.

(Mary looks interested.)

Sarah: Now, it turned out it was only Aggie next door. She'd put the electric blanket on full whack and scalded the legs off herself. But still, it could just as easily have been-

Erin: (unimpressed) The disembodied spirit of a dead relative?

Sarah: Exactly. My nerves are wrecked. I'm living on a knife's edge, here. Is there any Rice Krispies?

Orla: Shh! Shh! This is the best bit!

(Orla excitedly bangs her wooden spoon against a mug, knocking it to the floor where it breaks.)

Mary: Okay, everyone! Remain calm! I need you all to listen very carefully.

[Time lapse.]

Mary: Okay, I'm going in. (She sweeps up broken mug with dustpan and brush.)

(Deidre, Michelle and James walk in. Deidre knocks.)

Mary: For the love of God! Don't come in here!

(They walk in anyway.)

Deidre: Everything all right, Mary?

(The whole family are standing on chairs or sitting on the table.  Clare is reading Moby Dick.)

Mary: Stay back, Deidre. This place is a death trap.

Deidre: Listen Mary, I hate to do this to you, but me and Martin are both working nights, and I'm nervous about leaving these two on their own, what with the day that's in it. Don't suppose there's any chance you could take them with you?

Mary: Ach away, Deidre, it's just-

Deidre: The English thing?

(James looks upset.)

Deidre: Listen Mary, I understand. I mean, he's my nephew, and even I find it hard to get past. If I'm totally honest, there's times when I look at him and I feel…  (she looks at James) Well… It's pure hatred. I'll not dress it up.

Mary: No, no, it's not the English thing.

Deidre: Hope to God it's not the gay thing you're offended by.

James: (still looking upset) There is no gay thing.

Deidre: Because I'd be disappointed in you, Mary. I'll not lie.

Mary: Of course not. I mean, if anything the gay thing sort of cancels out the English thing.

James: Again, no gay thing.

Michelle: You wouldn't move over there, James? I can't see past your massive closet.

Mary: I'm just not sure we'll have room in the caravan.

Granda Joe: It'll be grand. Us men can camp outside.

Gerry: (buries his head in his hand) Oh, God.

James: Oh, God.

(Michelle looks happy.)

Granda Joe: Run and ask Jim across the road for the lend of his tent.

Deidre: Aw, thanks a million Mary. I owe you one. Here, if you want our Ryan to sort that gable wall of yours out, you've only to ask.

(Mary looks appalled.)

Mary: What's wrong with our gable wall?

[Outside the Quinn house. 'Up the rebellies' is painted on the side of their house.]

Mary: Christ's sake!

Sarah: Do you think it's an omen?

[In Jim's house.]

Jim: Right. Now watch.

(Jim closes the window and the sound is completely blocked out.)

Jim: What about that?

Orla: (amazed) Wow!

Jim: I tell you, girls, the double glazing, it'll change your life.

Erin: (looking frustrated) Yeah, as I said, it's… It's very impressive, Jim, but we're actually in a bit of a hurry.

(Michelle is smoking. Clare is reading Moby Dick.)

Erin: So if we could just grab that tent.

(Jim opens the window again. Orla signals to Erin to be quiet. He closes the window.)

Orla: Mind-blowing.

[Outside the Quinn house. Sarah, Granda Joe, Mary and Gerry are staring at the mural with Joe holding the baby.]

Mary: What are they, stilts?

Granda Joe: Golf clubs.

Sarah: I thought… spatulas.

Gerry: They're rifles!

Sarah: Really? Are you sure?

Gerry: Fairly sure. I also don't understand what connection spatulas, golf clubs or stilts would have to the Irish resistance.

Granda Joe: Christ, he's a dose.

[In Jim's house.]

(Jim sits inside his tent with Orla. Clare continues reading.)

Jim: Now, once your tent is erect…

(Michelle snorts with laughter.)

Jim: You'll want to think about where to safely store your food, because believe me, girls, you do not want to attract predatory animals into your sleeping area. Bears are particularly vicious.

Erin: Yeah, I'm not sure how many bears there are in Portnoo, though, Jim.

Orla: But there was a cheetah on the beach one time.

Erin: That was a greyhound, Orla.

Orla: (smiling at Jim) I know what I saw.

[Outside the Quinn house. Joe is attaching suitcases to car roof.]

(The kids walk out of Jim's house, James carrying the tent.)

Granda Joe: (to James) Gave you the Intrepid, did he? (he smiles) That's his second best test, you know? Tell you what, son. I'm putting you in charge of it, okay?

James: (looking scared) Oh, please don't. Please don't put me in charge of it.

Granda Joe: (patting James on the shoulder) You'll be all right.

Mary: (carrying the baby) Right, there's too many of us for one car. Some of you will have to go with my da.

Michelle: Can I? Can I? (to James) Cause Joe drives really fast. He like, runs through red lights and takes corners on two wheels. It is class!

(James and Clare look scared.)

Orla: (to Clare) It really is!

James: I think I'll hop in with Mr. Quinn, if that's okay.

Clare: Me too!

Sarah: (smoking) I'll go with me da. He lets me smoke.

Mary: You're coming? What about the grave danger we're putting ourselves in?

Sarah: Well, it's a concern, but so is the fact that I have nothing in for me Sunday dinner, so…

Gerry: All right, Joe, if you just follow me.

Granda Joe: Now, why should I follow you?

Gerry: I've got the map.

Granda Joe: Aye. (grabs map from Gerry) Well now I have the map.

(Gerry looks annoyed.)

Mary: Ach, Da!

Gerry: Joe, it's all just a bit trickier today. There are so many roadblocks up, there are so many diversions, and you know, I drive for a living.

Granda Joe: He says this like it's something to be proud of.

Gerry: Look, we just need to get out of this place as quickly and as quietly as possible.

Granda Joe: You know what age I am, boy?

(Sarah and Orla watch interestedly.)

Granda Joe: You know how many of these parades I've lived through? You think I don't realise how quickly a situation can turn? Do you think I'd do anything to put my family at risk?

Gerry: No, of course not. I'm sorry.

Granda Joe: (standing close to Gerry, staring) Aye.

[In the middle of the parade, both cars drive slowly.]

Granda Joe: (shouting from car) What are you looking at, you tangerine tool?

Erin: Okay, Granda.

Gerry: I think what's happened here is, now correct me if I'm wrong, but I think your father has just driven through a police barricade.

(Clare looks scared and hugs her book.)

Mary: Well, it's done now.

Gerry: Oh, that's true. It's probably not even that big a deal, if you ignore the fact that Orangemen are circling us as though we're their fucking prey!

(Orangeman threateningly gestures at Gerry.)

Mary: It'll be grand.

(James looks terrified.)

Clare: I'm starting to understand how Moby Dick must feel.

Gerry: Christ, I'm sweating here. (puts down the window)

(Mary and Gerry inaudibly argue.)

Granda Joe: You lot tell me where I can and can't go in me own town?! Orange bastards!

(Orla looks satisfied.)

Sarah: (smoking) Sure, didn't I predict this?

Erin: No, you didn't.

Sarah: I said this trip would place us in grave danger, Erin. Those were my very words. 

Erin: This isn't grave danger.

Orla: (pointing) Oh, look. That cop's pointing his gun at us.

Erin: (worried) I mean, it's not ideal, but this is more of a pickle. (leans forward to Joe) Isn't a pickle, isn't it Granda? It's just a pickle.

Granda Joe: Arseholes!

Erin: Okay, then.

Michelle: So, would you do me a reading, Sarah?

Sarah: I would surely, love.

(Michelle looks pleased.)

Erin: Grow up, Michelle. Deck of cards can't actually predict your future.

(Michelle rolls her eyes.)

Erin: It's ridiculous, it's medieval.

Granda Joe: Shower of shites!

(Orangemen boo and bang on the car.)

Gerry: They really don't look that happy, do they?

Mary: (applying lipstick) Look, why don't we explain it was just an accident, that we don't want any trouble?

(Orangemen peer threateningly into the car.)

Gerry: I'm not going out there.

Mary: Well, send one of the wains out.

(James and Clare look horrified.)

Clare: What?

James: What?

Mary: Well, the wee fella's English. They might respect that.

Clare: I think they would respect that, actually!

(James looks panicked and betrayed.)

Gerry: Away you go, son.

James: You're not serious!

Gerry: It'll be grand. (panicking and smiling politely at passing Orangemen) Underneath it all, I'm sure they're reasonable enough people.

(Crowd of Orangemen boo and shake the car. James looks terrified.)

James: Absolutely no chance!

Michelle: (to Sarah) And how soon am I gonna meet this fella?

Sarah: Dead soon. Really soon.

Michelle: And answer me this. Is he a ride?

Sarah: Oh God, aye.

Michelle: Is it just a casual thing, or are we talking a keeper here?

Sarah: I'm thinking marriage.

Michelle: (looking excited) Holy fuck!

Erin: (bored) Catch yourself on.

Michelle: To think, I could be staring at him right now. (she peers out at the Orangemen surrounding her)

Erin: You can't marry an Orangeman, Michelle.

Michelle: That's a pity, cause I think there's something really sexy about the fact that they hate us so much.

(Orangemen continue to give them dirty looks. Orla and Michelle wave.)

[Time lapse. Outside the city, on the road to Portnoo.]

Gerry: I hope your father appreciates the fact that I was the one who got us out of that mess.

Mary: He won't! And nobody back there actually believed you were a Japanese tourist, Gerry. They all thought you were a nutcase. They took pity on you. (looking through her bag) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Dear God, no.

Gerry: What's wrong?

Mary: I can't find my purse.

Gerry: I can see your purse right there.

Mary: Well no, that's my sterling purse! I'm talking about my punt purse. I can't find my punt purse, Gerry. (blesses herself) Blessed Saint Anthony, the grace of God has made you the patron saint of all things lost and stolen.

(James looks confused.)

Mary: I turn to you this day with childlike love and deep confidence.

(Clare is reading Moby Dick.)

Gerry: Look, Mary, calm down.

Mary: (angry and panicking) Calm down, Gerry?! We have no punts! We can't go to the Free State without punts. We're puntless. We haven't a punt between us. Oh God… I think… I think I'm having a panic attack. Oh, stupid punts.

Gerry: Over this? So what happened back there was totally fine, but this… this is worth having a panic attack about?

Mary: No, you're gonna have to turn around.

Gerry: There is more chance of me eloping with your father to a flip flop shop in Hawaii-

Mary: Look, okay, fine! But that means we won't be able to buy anything, which means we'll have no food, which means we'll all starve to death. So, you know, on your head be it, Gerry. (realisation) Oh, actually, do you know what? I think I put it in the suitcase.

Gerry: (rolling his eyes) False alarm there, Saint Anthony. Sorry for troubling you.

(Both cars pull over to side of the road.)

Granda Joe: What's this prick up to now?

(They all get out.)

Granda Joe: (to Gerry) What the hell were you playing at back there, Kemosabe?

Gerry: That's actually a Native American term.

Granda Joe: Well, what were you meant to be?

Mary: Japanese.

James: I don't think you get much Japanese tourism in Derry, do you?

Michelle: Aye, cause that's why it wasn't believable, dickweed.

Erin: What's going on? Why have we stopped?

Mary: My punt purse is in the bucking suitcase.

Sarah: Punts are such a pain in the arse. Why can't they just use sterling?

Mary: Well they did for a while, Sarah, but then, you know, partition happened.

(Gerry opens the boot of the car.)

Gerry: (jumping back) Holy God!

(A man lies in their boot. He slowly sits up.)

Mary: Jesus Christ!

Orla: Did you not put him in there, Aunt Mary?

Mary: No. No, I did not.

Orla: All right? How's it going?

Emmett: Not too bad. Not too bad. And yourself?

(Orla smiles, shrugs and nods.)

Mary: I'm sorry, who are you?

Emmett: Ah, Emmett's the name. Well, not my real name, like, but it'll have to do. Anyway, I'll not be keeping you.

(Emmett starts to close the boot on himself again.)

Mary: No, hold on. Wait.

Emmett: (opening boot) Yeah?

(They all stare down on him.)

Mary: Do you mind telling us what you're doing in there?

Emmett: Aw, right. Well, during the last 24 hours, crossing the border has become somewhat of a priority for me. So, I did a bit of asking around, you know, just on the off chance someone would be heading down that way, and… your name came up, and… there you have it.

Gerry: (looking horrified) Fantastic.

(Orla nods happily.)

Emmett: All right? Lovely to meet you. (closes boot)

(Orla waves.)

[Time lapse.]

Michelle: I'm in shock.

Erin: It's insane.

Michelle: I don't even think I fancy him.

Erin: What?

Michelle: Well, it's obviously him. It's obviously my husband. Like it's just too much of a coincidence.

Erin: Do you remember the whole 'us being in grave danger' thing Sarah mentioned? Well, I think… (hysterical) I think this might be it.

Michelle: I thought you said fortune telling was medieval.

Erin: Yeah, well, something has made me reassess all that. What was it again? Oh, aye. The fact that there's an actual Provo in the boot of our car!

Clare: (angry) Oh, no! I've lost my bookmark! Now I've lost my page! Oh my God! This day just goes from bad to worse!

Erin: Bit of perspective maybe, Clare.

Michelle: I could grow to fancy him, I suppose.

James: Why doesn't someone just call the police?

(They all stare at him like he's mad.)

Michelle: Cause that's not how things work around here, James.

James: (hysterical) Well, how do things work here? How do they work?! Will one of you please explain it to me? Because sometimes I feel like I've gone through the fucking looking glass!

Clare: Calm down, James.

Michelle: Aye, don't be such a dick, James.

(James tuts and shakes his head in frustration.)

(Mary knocks on the boot. Emmett opens up.)

Emmett: Was there something else, or?

Mary: Yes. Yes, there was something else, actually.

Emmett: I'm sure you have questions. I just don't really want to get into it all.

Mary: Yeah well, we didn't really want you to get into our boot.

Granda Joe: Maybe just leave the fella be, sure, what's the odds?

Gerry: What if they pull us over at the checkpoint, Joe? What if the army asks to search the car?

Granda Joe: The brits are flat out with thon parade. They'll not bother with the likes of us.

Emmett: That's a good point.

Mary: Stay out of it, you.

Granda Joe: Right, in you go, son. (closes the boot)

Mary: Ah, Da.

Granda Joe: What do you want me to do? Turf the wain out in the middle of nowhere?

Gerry: But this is dangerous, Joe. He is dangerous.

Emmett: (from inside the boot) I'm not dangerous.

Gerry: In fairness, Emmett, if you were dangerous, you wouldn't say that you were dangerous, would you?

Emmett: True.

Erin: (frantically) Shh!

(There's a ticking noise.)

Erin: Can you hear that?

Michelle: Hear what?

(James looks concerned.)

Gerry: Come on, Emmett, out you go. (starts opening boot)

Granda Joe: (stopping Gerry) Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah! You just stay where you are, son.

Erin: Ticking. It's… It's… It's like a ticking sound.

Gerry: I'm not comfortable driving him across the border.

Granda Joe: Fine. I'll drive him.

Erin: (turning towards the cars, looking terrified) Aw, dear God.

Mary: We're all involved in this, Da. We'll decide what to do as a family.

(Erin runs frantically towards her family beside the cars.)

Erin: Bomb! He has a bomb!

(Emmett suddenly opens the boot in panic.)

Erin: Listen, Mammy! Listen!

Mary: Ach, Erin, that's just the big clock.

(Emmett looks frustrated and relieved. He closes the boot again.)

[At Peggy's diner. The family sits at one table, Emmett sits at another, drinking coffee. They stare at him.]

Gerry: It's aiding and abetting. We're talking serious jail time here.

(Orla sleeps on Granda Joe's shoulder.)

Granda Joe: Well, it's a risk we have to take.

Gerry: No, it's not Joe. It's not a risk we have to take. It's a risk we shouldn't take.

Granda Joe: Don't you take that tone with me, boy.

Mary: He seems like a nice enough fella, Gerry.

Gerry: We have to walk away from this.

Erin: What if we can't walk away, Daddy? What if we don't help him and he kills us all because we know too much?

Orla: I like him. I think he's a character.

(The waitress walks over to take their order.)

Waitress: Well?

Gerry: Just a cup of tea for me, please, love.

(Mary smiles at the waitress.)

Mary: Same here.

Granda Joe: And here, thanks love.

Mary: Oh, and some Cokes for the wains, please. What do you fancy, Sarah?

Sarah: I wouldn't mind a wee vodka.

Michelle: Make that two.

Waitress: (annoyed) We don't sell alcohol.

(The baby cries and the waitress looks at her in annoyance.)

Sarah: I'll take a tea.

(Orla is sleeping on Granda Joe's shoulder again.)

Waitress: Any food?

Mary: (putting on her glasses) We're just looking.

Waitress: (sighs) Fine. (walks away)

Gerry: Yeah, and at £2.25 a burger, looking is all we'll be doing.

(Emmett suddenly appears at their table. They look shocked. He grabs a knife.)

Emmett: Ah, don't mind me. Just grabbing a knife.

(Everyone looks uncomfortable.)

Emmett: Take it you haven't decided yet.

Granda Joe: Just leave it with me, son.

Emmett: Aye, no pressure. Sure I'll be over here if you need me.

(Emmett returns to his table.)

Erin: What the hell does he need a knife for?

James: He's eating his lunch.

(Emmett uncomfortably pulls food from his teeth. Sarah and Michelle stare at him.)

Sarah: God, but he has great teeth, doesn't he?

Michelle: (in awe) He really does, but… Now, tell the truth. The hair. Can you see a ginger tinge?

Sarah: Now that you mention it…

Michelle: So Christ only knows what's lurking downstairs. And that is a concern.

Erin: But spending the rest of your life with a fugitive is less of a concern?

Michelle: Absolutely. (she gazes at him flirtatiously)

(Michelle approaches Emmett's table.)

Michelle: Hey.

Emmett: All right?

Michelle: (sits down) I think you know who I am.

Emmett: Yeah.

Michelle: You sense it?

Emmett: No, I mean I remember. You're with them. (points at the family)

Michelle: Look, I just wanted to say, while there's obviously something between us…

Emmett: (confused) There is?

Michelle: The physical thing isn't really working for me yet.

Emmett: Right.

Michelle: I'm not saying you won't grow on me. You're not a bad looking lad.

Emmett: Thank you.

Michelle: But the ginger element… Well, I've sort of got a borderline phobia.

Emmett: I'm not ginger.

Michelle: There's a tinge, Emmett.

(Emmett looks deeply confused.)

Michelle: And while I can't say it won't be a struggle, I'm willing to try.

Emmett: (drinking tea) Great.

Michelle: (smiling) Even though it sort of turns my stomach. (giggles)

Emmett: Okay.

(At the other table, Sarah takes out her tarot cards.)

Mary: Do you really think this will work? That they'll tell us what to do?

Sarah: Sure it's worth a try. (gasps) Would you look at that?

Mary: What? What do they say?

Sarah: I think… Now I can't be certain, but I think they're saying you should leave Gerry.

(Mary stares at Gerry. Gerry looks worried.)

Granda Joe: I could have told you that years ago, and I'm not psychic.

Gerry: (sighs) Okay. Look, I've yet to hear anybody say anything to convince me that bringing that lad across the border with us is a good idea.

(Emmett walks towards the table.)

Erin: Shit, he's coming.

Emmett: I really didn't want to have to do this. (he reaches into his pocket)

Erin: Jesus Christ! Get down! Everybody get down! (She jumps under the table.)

(The others sit awkwardly.)

Emmett: (holding a packet of cigarettes) Is there something wrong with her?

Mary: Stop that, Erin.

(Emmett lights up a cigarette. Erin crawls out from under the table.)

Erin: Sorry Emmett, you were saying?

Emmett: Didn't want to put you in this position, but I can't stress the seriousness of my situation.

(Waitress walks up.)

Waitress: Anything else?

Emmett: Oh, do you know what? I wouldn't mind a knickerbocker glory.

Waitress: (glaring at Emmett) Right. (she walks away)

Emmett: You need to help me out here.

Gerry: We do that and we're breaking the law.

Emmett: Oh you recognise the legal system of a brutal, imperialistic oppressor, do you?

Gerry: Uh, if they can put me in jail for twenty years, then yes Emmett. Yes, I do.

Granda Joe: Listen, listen. Have you killed anyone, son?

Emmett: No. (looking uncertain) Well, at least not directly?

Granda Joe: Well, there you go. So that settles it.

(Gerry looks appalled.)

Gerry: I don't think that does settle it actually, Joe!

Granda Joe: You know what's wrong with you, Gerry? You're an awful wuss.

Gerry: I'm not a wuss!

Granda Joe: You're afraid of your own shadow.

Gerry: (angry) No, I'm not.

Granda Joe: Then grow a set of balls and help the fella out.

Gerry: I have a set of balls, thank you very much.

Erin: Oh seriously, Daddy.

Granda Joe: You're even afraid of that wee girl.

Gerry: What wee girl?

Granda Joe: That waitress.

(Gerry looks shocked.)

Granda Joe: You wanted a cup of tea, she brought you a coke, and you just sat there and said sweet Fanny Adams.

Michelle: (laughs) Your granda said fanny.

Gerry: Well, that's because I like coke!

Emmett: Her customer service is shocking as well.

Mary: Aye, desperate.

Sarah: Someone should say something.

Granda Joe: (pointing at Gerry) Aye! Gerry! Gerry should say something!

Gerry: I will. No problem. I'll say something.

(They all look uncertain.)

Gerry: (to waitress) Excuse me! Excuse me, please. (nods at waitress)

(The waitress walks over.)

Waitress: (snaps) What?

Gerry: Um, I just wanted to say that, uh, I, um, I ordered a tea, you brought me a coke, and that's not acceptable.

Waitress: But you drank the coke.

Gerry: That's not the point.

(Granda Joe nods at him.)

Gerry: And your service has been nothing short of appalling. Your attitude is worse. It's simply not good enough!

Waitress: (looking upset) I'll, uh… I'll bring you a tea.

Gerry: (snapping) You do that!

(Waitress starts to cry.)

Waitress: I'm sorry. I got a bit of bad news today. I haven't really been able to focus on… I've been a bit distracted maybe.

(Gerry looks guilty.)

Waitress: I'm sorry. I'll just- (she goes to grab the glasses)

Gerry: No, no, no. Ignore all that.

Waitress: (still sobbing) I'll… bring you your tea right away, sir. (she walks away quickly)

Granda Joe: (sternly) Well, there was absolutely no need for that.

(Everyone looks at Gerry in shock.)

Sarah: Jesus, Gerry.

Michelle: (nodding) Harsh.

Emmett: Awful.

Clare: Poor girl.

Erin: Aye, I can't believe you did that, Daddy.

Gerry: (looking annoyed) I… (to Joe) You asked me to. How could I have known?

(The group look dissatisfied.)

Gerry: Now, will you all just stop looking at me?

(They continue looking at him.)

Gerry: Fine. Fine. Do you know what? Fine! I've had it with the lot of you! (he gets up) And, just for the record back there, I was being an Australian tourist, okay? Australian. And I happen to think that my accent was flawless. (in an Australian accent) Excuse me, mate. Can you help us get out of here? (back to Irish) Flawless! (he walks away)

Mary: (looking shocked) Okay. We have to decide what to do here, one way or another. Let's just vote.

Erin: Leave him! (lowers voice to Mary) I vote we run away and leave him.

Michelle: I vote we take him, for better or worse and all that.

(Emmett nods in appreciation.)

Granda Joe: I vote we take him.

Orla: Me too.

Clare: I can't decide.

James: I've decided, but I'm afraid to say what I've decided.

Sarah: Why don't we just toss a coin?

[In the bathroom. Gerry splashes water across his face.]

(Gerry looks in the mirror while drying his face, only to see the rifles that were painted on his house wall, on the wall behind him. He turns around in shock.)

(He walks over, and touches it. It is still wet.)

Gerry: Interesting.

[At the table. Mary has her purse out, rummaging for change.]

Sarah: So, heads, the wee RA man comes with us. Tails, we leave him.

Granda Joe: (nodding) Mmm.

Mary: (holding the coin) Aye. Ready?

Granda Joe: Go on, then.

(Mary throws the coin on the table. It clatters. They all wait. It settles.)

James: What is that? A fish?

Sarah: A dolphin, is it?

Clare: It sort of looks like Moby Dick, actually.

Mary: Ah, shite. I used a punt, didn't I?

Michelle: Well, what's on the other side?

Granda Joe: A harp.

Erin: So, harp must be the head and fish must be the tail?

(Emmett walks away.)

Orla: Oh, that makes sense yeah, because fish have tails. (she laughs)

Sarah: Why don't we just do it again with real money?

Mary: This is real money, Sarah.

Sarah: You know what I mean. Normal money.

Mary: (frustrated) All right! Who has ten pence?

Gerry: (back from the bathroom) It was him!

(Everyone turns to look at him.)

Gerry: The mural on our house, the spray paint. It was Emmett, and I can prove it.

Mary: (shocked) Sly wee bastard!

Granda Joe: You bloody tout.

Sarah: Where is Emmett?

Orla: (pointing out the window) There he is.

(They all walk over to the window. Emmett stands with Jim's second-best tent.)

Mary: Is that Jim's tent?

(James sighs in frustration.)

Clare: What's he doing?

(Emmett moves after a moving car, jumps in the boot and slams it behind him.)

Granda Joe: (furiously turning to Gerry) I told you to look after that tent.

Gerry: No you didn't, you told him to look after it. (pointing at James)

Granda Joe: Ah! Blame the wain, big man. (he dramatically turns to the window again) Jesus. Jim's second-best tent. How am I going to break it to him?

EPISODE 6

[In the Quinn kitchen.]

Mary: All I'm saying is I find it difficult to believe.

Sarah: But it's the truth, Mary.

Mary: Really?

Sarah: Honest to God.

Mary: So if I was to go next door and open that washing basket of yours…

Sarah: You wouldn't find any darks. What, do you think I'm holding out on you?

Mary: I don't know what to believe.

Sarah: Listen, I've plenty of coloureds. You're welcome to my coloureds.

Mary: I'm not interested in your coloureds, Sarah. It's darks I need.

(Granda Joe walks in.)

Mary: Oh listen, Da.

Granda Joe: Do not be starting me about darks, Mary. I've given you whatever darks I have. (puts on a hat) Stick on a half load and be done with it, woman.


Mary: A half load goes against everything I stand for. You know that, Da.

Sarah: You away to do the big shop, Da?

Granda Joe: Aye. Gerry!

(Mary is startled by Joe shouting.)

Granda Joe: Gerry! I don't see why that useless drip you call a husband has to get coming.

Mary: Because someone needs to drive, and you've been suspended, again.

Sarah: What did you do this time, Daddy?

Granda Joe: Nothing. It's RUC discrimination. The only crime I committed was to be born a Catholic.

Mary: Gerry's never been suspended, and he's a Catholic.

Granda Joe: He's also a prick, but that's by the by.

Mary: Cut that out, Da.

(Gerry walks in.)

Gerry: Found some.

Mary: (looking excited and thankful) Oh!

Gerry: Found some, Mary!

(Mary's face drops as she sees Gerry holding a pair of socks. She takes the socks.)

Mary: Great.

Granda Joe: Right. That's us away.

Mary: (to Gerry) Have a nice time.

Granda Joe: (walking out) Tell that Free State fucker to shift his hole!

Gerry: (looking annoyed) I'm sure we will. (follows Joe)

(Mary looks disappointed.)

Sarah: There's no shame in doing a half load, you know, Mary.

Mary: I can't, Sarah. I physically can't.

(Erin, Orla, Clare, Michelle and James walk in, wearing their uniforms and chattering. Mary eyes up their dark blazers excitedly.)

[Time lapse. The kids are washing dishes and wearing nothing but their shirts, underwear, socks and shoes.]

Mary: (to James) Hey. Let me look at that.

(James walks over holding a plate.)

Mary: And you call that clean, do you?

Sarah: Different standards, you see, Mary. You're not in England now, son.

James: Orla was the one who washed it.

Orla: (sarcastically laughing) Oh, okay. Okay, I have had it with you, James, and your picking, picking, picking, and I won't take it anymore. Do you hear me?

James: Is everything okay, Orla?

Sarah: I warned you, Orla. You're putting yourself under too much pressure.

Orla: Can't fail, Mammy.

Erin: Since when have you been troubled by exams?

Orla: (confused) Exams? What are you on about, Erin?

Erin: What are you on about, Orla?

Orla: Step.

Erin: I'm sorry?

Orla: Step aerobics!

Sarah: Orla's got really into step aerobics. Her instructor says she's a natural.

(Orla smiles at Sarah.)

Sarah: Says she's got what it takes to go all the way.

Mary: All the way in… step aerobics?

Sarah: But it's out of control now, Mary. She's stepping morning, noon and night. Apart from anything else, it's dangerous. She nearly came through the ceiling yesterday. Okay, she might be gifted, but I just want her to have a normal childhood.

Orla: I won't give it up. I can't.

Sarah: Listen to yourself, love.

(Mary grabs her basket and stares eagerly at the kids.)

Mary: Now, whites.

(The kids look scared and Mary returns a stern look.)

[At the market. Joe is pushing a trolley and sees Gerry in a photo shop. He stops and pushes his trolley inside.]

Granda Joe: I've got my eye on you, boy.

(Gerry turns, startled.)

Gerry: Jesus, Joe.

Granda Joe: What are you doing here? Meeting your fancy woman, I suppose.

Gerry: No, I'm not. I'm collecting Mary's photographs. And if I was having an illicit rendezvous with my mistress, I'm not sure that the supermarket that my father-in-law is doing the big shop in would be the best place for it, really.

(Ciaran, who works in the photo shop appears with Mary's photos in hand.)

Ciaran: 'Quinn', you said?

Gerry: That's right.

Ciaran: Here we go.

Gerry: Great.

Ciaran: That'll be £3.75, please. And have you got your wee docket there?

Gerry: Yeah, I do, yeah. (searches through wallet)

Ciaran: It's a wee, red slip of paper, about yea big. (shows size with hands)

Gerry: Yeah.

Ciaran: Dark blue lettering, it has.

Gerry: Yeah, I know.

Ciaran: Not a navy blue, more like a royal blue.

Gerry: I know what it looks like.

Ciaran: Times new roman, I believe the font is called.

Gerry: (frantically searching) I just can't find it.

Granda Joe: Prick.

Gerry: Uh, look, I'm sorry. Um, do you absolutely need it?

Ciaran: I'm afraid I do, sir, yes. Proof of ID.

Gerry: But you have my surname written on it, there.

Ciaran: How do I know that's your surname?

Gerry: Because I just told you it was my surname.

Ciaran: You could be lying.

Gerry: And why would I lie?

Ciaran: To get your hands on someone else's photos.

Gerry: And why would I want somebody else's photos? Like who would pay for somebody's else's photos?

Granda Joe: Ah, stalker maybe.

Ciaran: Yeah, exactly! Very good, sir. A stalker. (points at Gerry)

Gerry: I'm not a stalker!

Ciaran: Look, why don't you just go home and have a wee look for your wee docket? (smiles)

Gerry: No, this is ridiculous. Just open that up and take out one of the photos.

(Ciaran sighs and opens the packet of photos. He takes one out.)

Gerry: You see? That's me wife, there.

Ciaran: How do I know you're not just telling me that?

Gerry: Because that's me, standing beside her.

Ciaran: (staring at photo) I suppose you do look a bit like this man.

Gerry: I am this man.

(Ciaran closes compares the two.)

Ciaran: It could be you.

Gerry: It's definitely me. My name is Gerry Quinn. This is my father-in-law, Joe. He can vouch for me.

(Ciaran looks at Joe expectantly.)

Granda Joe: I've never seen this man before in my life.

(Gerry looks shocked and annoyed.)

Ciaran: No docket, no photographs. (he walks away with the photos)

(Gerry shakes his head at Joe. Joe shrugs.)

[At the school, in the library. Jenny and her friends work hard, Erin stands over the copier.]

Aisling: (to Erin) Ten copies of these, please. And Jenny wants a tea.

(Erin smiles fakely and doesn't move.)

(Jenny stands on a chair.)

Jenny: Okay, guys. Don't forget, entries for our 'searching for myself' writing competition are to be placed here. (points at a colourful box) If you could all spread the word, that'd be fabby-dabby-doo.

Erin: (to herself) Fabby-dabby-dick.

(Sister Michael walks in.)

Sister Michael: Can I have your attention, please, ladies? (to Jenny) Get down, get down.

(All the girls gather round.)

Sister Michael: I've just received a phone call from Louise Kerr's mother, and it's not looking great.

Jenny: (distraught) Oh, God. I just can't believe it.

Sister Michael: It's unlikely she'll be returning to school before the end of the year, so I think the only thing we can do now is-

Aisling: Pray for her?

Sister Michael: (sneering) No, sure what use would that do? No, I think the best thing we can do is decide who will fulfil the role of editor now.

Jenny: (raising her hand) Sister Michael, some of us have actually already discussed this eventuality, and the thing is, well, nobody's comfortable stepping into Louise's shoes.

Aisling: It feels a bit, sort of disrespectful.

Jenny: We think this issue should be cancelled.

Sister Michael: Right, well fair enough. If nobody's willing to take her place-

Erin: (raising her hand) I'll do it.

Jenny: (appalled) Excuse me?

Erin: I'll take her place. I'll step into her shoes. I'll do it.

Sister Michael: Really?

Erin: Absolutely.

Jenny: No, you can't. We are making a statement. You're ruining our statement.

(The other girls look annoyed at Erin.)

Erin: Look, girls, I know Louise meant a lot to you all.

Jenny: She's not dead, Erin!

Erin: Well, not yet. And hopefully she won't, you know, die.

(Aisling looks shocked. Jenny looks taken aback.)

Erin: But if she does, the show must go on. (enthusiastically) Isn't that right, Sister Michael?

Sister Michael: You terrify me.

Jenny: You can't be the editor.

Aisling: You've never even written an article, Erin.

Erin: That's because I can't get anything past Rupert Murdoch over there. (gestures towards Jenny)

Jenny: This isn't fair. You can't let it happen, Sister.

Sister Michael: (nods) I know. But I'm bored now, so it looks like I probably will. Good luck, all. (walks away)

(Erin looks shocked and elated.)

[In the Quinn living room. They all search through the drawers.]

Mary: How could you have lost the wee docket, Gerry?

(In the background Orla enthusiastically practices her step aerobics.)

Sarah:  Aye, everybody knows you have to hang onto the wee docket.

Gerry: Look, I've said that I'm sorry!

Mary: There were my birthday photos, for God's sake.

Granda Joe: There's definitely grounds for an annulment here, Mary.

Mary: I mean, you only turn thirty-three once.

Gerry: You've been thirty-three a few times now, in fairness, Mary.

Mary: Well aren't you a brave man, given the circumstances?

Granda Joe: Mary, come on. Would you not reconsider?

(Gerry looks scared.)

Mary: No, Da.

Granda Joe: Please, love. Just the once.

Mary: I'm not letting you hit him, Da.

Sarah: I'm devastated. That was when I lost the half stone doing the Rosemary Conley, as well. My collar bone was sort of poking through my skin. Do you remember, Mary?

Mary: Aye, you were far too thin, Sarah.

Sarah: I know I was. It was brilliant. And now I haven't got so much as a photograph to look back on.

Gerry: Look, it's gone. The docket's gone. Why don't we just move on?

Granda Joe: Why don't you just move out?

(Erin walks in excitedly.)

Erin: Guess who's been made editor of the school magazine!

(No one pays attention. The washing machine beeps and Mary runs to it.)

Erin: (ecstatic) Me! I have! Can you believe it?

Mary: Oh, Christ. My whites.

(Mary walks out with newly pink clothes.)

Mary: I think I know what happened to the wee docket. (she holds it up)

(Gerry looks guilty. They stare at him.)

[In the school corridor.]

(Erin walks confidently in slow motion wearing a pink shirt. People give her odd looks.)

(James, Clare, Michelle and Orla appear, also wearing pink shirts. Erin ignores them and walks on.)

Michelle: Dick.

(Orla looks at Clare questioningly. Clare shrugs it off. They walk in opposite direction.)

[In the library at school. Erin walks in.]

Erin: Good morning, team!

(The room appears to be empty.)

Erin: (looking deflated) Where is everyone?

Aisling: (appearing from behind a computer) They quit.

Erin: What? You're not serious.

Aisling: They all think what you did was pretty out of order, Erin.

Erin: I see.

Aisling: And that you're a bit ruthless.

Erin: Okay.

Aisling: And cold.

Erin: Right.

Aisling: And nobody really has any respect for you.

Erin: Yes, all right! Thank you. (takes a breath) Well, I appreciate that you're still here, Aisling. I really do. I'm not gonna lie. Just the two of us, it's gonna be tough, but if you're not afraid of the challenge… (drops briefcase) then neither am I.

Aisling: (looking awkward) Yeah. I only came back because I forgot my inhaler. (holds up inhaler)

Erin: Fine. Puff off!

(Aisling starts to walk out of the library, puffing on her inhaler.)

Erin: I don't need you. I don't need any of you. I've got my own people, and we'll show you up for the amateurs that you are. (shouting after Aisling down the corridor) My people are shit hot! Do you hear me? Shit hot!

[Time lapse. Michelle, James, Clare and Orla have joined Erin in the library.]

(Michelle is casually smoking.)

James: Okay. Right.

(James is working on a computer. Orla is doing step aerobics. Clare is looking at the copier. Erin is writing on the board.)

James: Okay. How do I do a new line again?

Michelle: Return. Jesus, James. How many times?

James: Return.

Clare: I can't understand!

(The copier beeps. Clare kicks it.)

Clare: Come on!

Erin: (turning suddenly) Seriously? Will you be quiet? I am trying to get my creative juices flowing over here!

(Clare looks distraught.)

Michelle: Okay, you're going to have to never say that sentence again.

Erin: Enough! Come on. We need to make a call on our lead story.

(Orla leaps towards her. The others gather round.)

Erin: Okay. So, let's…

(Orla keeps working on her moves. Erin turns towards her.)

Erin: Would you stop doing that, please?

Orla: I can't let my heartrate drop, I'm afraid, Erin.

Erin: Let's just run through some of our favourite ideas. So, firstly, animals.

(Clare does not look convinced.)

James: Animals. Can someone elaborate?

Erin: Yeah. So, this concept would focus on animals, alongside pictures of famous people who look a bit like animals.

Orla: (stretching) Michelle Pfeiffer looks like a cat.

Erin: Exactly.

James: Okay. Right. Animals.

(Clare folds her arms stressfully.)

James: Uh, what's the next one? Shoes of the-

Erin: Shoes of the world.

James: And that involves…?

Erin: So, this piece would concentrate on different shoes from around the world, sitting alongside pictures of… you know, different shoes from around the world.

James: (nods with worry) Okay.

Erin: So, like, how in Russia they wear boots because-

Michelle: It's Baltic.

Erin: And in India they wear sandals because-

Michelle: It's boiling.

(Erin nods confidently. James looks concerned.)

James: So, that's it, is it?

Erin: Thoughts?

James: I'm not totally convinced by either of them, if I'm honest.

Erin: (turning to face the board) Oh, my God, they're shit. They're absolutely shit. How can we print this utter shit?

James: (patting Erin on the shoulder) Okay, don't panic.

Erin: Don't panic? (panicking) Don't panic, James? 'Shoes of the world.' What does that even mean?

Michelle: Yeah, we're fucked.

Erin: No.

(Clare nods in distress.)

Erin: It's okay. It's gonna be okay. We-we-we just need to change our approach slightly. (she opens the box for the writing competition)

(Orla continues with her step aerobics.)

Clare: The writing competition?

Erin: (turning to face Clare with some sheets of paper) Exactly. There's bound to be something in here we can steal. We can just steal something, and we'll-we'll just steal someone's idea and we'll pass it off as our own. (hands a sheet to Clare)

James: Journalistic integrity at its finest.

Michelle: 'Searching for Myself'. What a load of balls.

Erin: (takes a sheet of paper) Oh my God.

Michelle: Let's see. (she looks at the sheet) 'Suffocation: The Secret Life of a Gay Teenager'. (she scoffs)

Erin: It's anonymous.

(Orla points at James.)

James: (offended) It wasn't me.

Erin: No. This was written by a girl. A real-life lesbian walks among us.

Orla: (looking confused) I don't really believe in lesbians.

Erin: This is perfect! We'll just print this.

Clare: Come on, Erin. You can't do that.

Erin: Why not?

Clare: We'll get in trouble, real trouble, big trouble.

Erin: You're not afraid of a bit of controversy, are you?

Clare: Yes! Actually, yes, I am! Something like this could go on our permanent record, Erin.

Erin: And what's more important, Clare? Your permanent record, or telling this poor girl's story?

Clare: My permanent record! (fires paper on the floor) Count me out! (she storms out of the library)

(Orla waves.)

Erin: (shouting) Fine! Well this issue of The Habit will go down in history! In history, I say!

(Orla looks excited.)

Michelle: You seriously need to chill the fuck out.

[In Sister Michael's office. A copy of The Habit is placed on her desk, with the headline 'THE SECRET LIFE OF A LESBIAN!' written on the front.]

Sister Michael: Not happening.

Erin: But Sister Michael-

Sister Michael: Don't even think about arguing. I can't be doing with the board of governors getting wind of something like this at the moment. They're a thorn in my arse at the best of times. I mean, for God's sake, Erin, what happened to 'Shoes of the World'?

Erin: This is more important. This is about, you know, gay rights.

Sister Michael: (rolling her eyes) I see. And I take it that's what the camp shirts are in aid of. A very serious uniform violation, by the way. But let's take one problem at a time, shall we?

Erin: (looking offended) This isn't a problem, Sister. (pointing at the newspaper) This is groundbreaking journalism.

Sister Michael: (sternly) They are not to be distributed tomorrow. Do I make myself clear?

James: But that's censorship.

Sister Michael: Well done. You are correct. You're being censored. Now go.

(James, Michelle and Orla walk away, annoyed. Erin doesn't move.)

[At the market.]

(Sarah tries out a perfume sample.)

[In the photo shop.]

Granda Joe: You see, I was so focused on pissing off that gobshite my eldest girl's unfortunate enough to be married to, that I completely lost sight of the fact that they were really her birthday photos.

(Ciaran nods.)

Granda Joe: And my other girl, my younger girl, well, she was looking very slim at the time, so…

(Ciaran smiles.)

Granda Joe: Go and grab them for me, there's a good fella. (passes the wet docket to Ciaran)

Ciaran: I can't accept that.

Granda Joe: I think something's been lost in translation here, boy.

(Ciaran looks concerned. Sarah walks in with perfume.)

Sarah: Here, Daddy. Get a whiff of that. (she puts her wrist to his nose)

(Joe sniffs.)

Granda Joe: Oh, that's very nice, love.

Ciaran: (amazed) It's you.

(Sarah sprays perfume all over herself and looks at Ciaran.)

Sarah: What?

Ciaran: The photographs. Well I remember you. Oh, I couldn't forget you. Hope you don't mind me saying this, but you have a cracking clavicle.

Sarah: (looking pleasantly surprised) I don't mind, Ciaran. I don't mind, at all.

(Ciaran smiles.)

Granda Joe: Oh, for Christ's sake.

[In the Quinn kitchen. They're eating dinner.]

Erin: It's wrong. I mean, my God, the injustice of it all.

(Sarah and Ciaran are looking at a photo.)

Sarah: You should get that one framed as a wee reminder of your night, Mary.

Mary: I'm not in that one.

Sarah: I know, but it's stunning of me.

Ciaran: (touching her hand) It is indeed.

Granda Joe: Hey, boy. It's dinner she invited you round for, not an orgy.

(Ciaran looks awkward and pulls his hand away.)

Erin: She basically told us we can't print the story because it's about a lesbian.

Sarah: Do you not think there's an awful lot of lesbians about nowadays? You can't move for lesbians. It's wall-to-wall lesbians out there.

Gerry: Really?

Granda Joe: Oh, it's true. Brigitte Gallagher, she's a lesbian.

(Orla does step aerobics in the background.)

Mary: (shocked) Brigette Gallagher, who works in the post office?

Granda Joe: I believe so.

Sarah: Is she not a vegetarian, Da?

Granda Joe: Sorry, you're right. (nods) Vegetarian, Brigitte is.

(Mary looks relieved.)

Ciaran: (smiling) Well, it's an easy mistake to make, Joe. Can I call you Joe?

Granda Joe: No.

Ciaran: (smiling awkwardly) Right.

Gerry: Welcome to the club, Ciaran.

Erin: I'm gonna have to make a stand about this, Mammy.

Mary: Ah, no you won't, Erin.

Erin: The school is trying to erase this young girl's experience, all because she's gay. I mean, what if it were me? What if it were Orla?

(Orla continues doing step aerobics.)

Mary: Fine. Stick up for the wee lesbian.

Orla: I just don't understand what they eat.

[Outside the school.]

(Erin, Michelle, James and Orla are handing out newspapers to kids getting off the bus.)

Michelle: (handing someone a newspaper) Read all about the wee dyke.

Erin: (throwing her arms in the air) We will not be censored!

Orla: (holding newspapers in both arms) Lesbians really do exist!

James: (holding up newspapers) I support gays, even though I, myself, am not actually gay!

Erin: (walking up to Clare) Awk, come on, Clare.

Clare: I don't want to get involved. I'm sorry. (walks away)

Erin: Coward!

[Inside the school. Everyone is reading the newspaper.]

(Jenny looks horrified.)

Sister Michael: (to Jenny) What's going on?

Jenny: (smugly) Erin Quinn and her friends are handing out their magazine. They're ignoring the ban, Sister. You need to put a stop to it.

(Sister Michael pauses, nods and walks away.)

Jenny: Sister, didn't you hear me?

Sister Michael: Do you know what, Jenny? I don't think I did. (takes a newspaper)

[Time lapse. James is getting a drink from the vending machine.]

Michelle: Isn't this mad?

James: (shaking his head in disbelief) It's all anyone's talking about.

Michelle: Everyone's buzzing to find out who she is.

James: Well, if she ever does reveal herself, she'll basically be a celebrity.

Michelle: Excuse me. Excuse me, everybody! Excuse me. (she runs half-way up the stairs) Excuse me! Yep! (clears her throat)

(James watches her with dread.)

Michelle: I just wanna say, that if you're looking for the wee lezzer, look no further, because here she is.

(James looks embarrassed.)

Michelle: Love women. Can't get enough of the ladies. Big fan of the fandango. Huge. Massive.

Girl 1: Aye, so's me ma.

Girl 2: Aye, good one.

Girl 3: You're talking shite.

Michelle: (annoyed) Fuck off.

[In the library at the school. Erin sits at a desk. Clare walks over to her.]

Clare: Hi.

Erin: Oh, it's crawled out from under its rock, has it? You should be ashamed of yourself.

Clare: I know. I'm sorry. It all just made me a bit nervous.

Erin: Everything makes you nervous, Clare. You're a walking cack attack.

Clare: I can't help that. It's the way God made me.

Erin: Michelle's running round saying it's her, that she wrote the story, that she's the wee lesbian. As if, like. There'd be more chance of it being you.

Clare: It is me.

Erin: No, I mean, I'd be less surprised if it was you.

Clare: It is.

Erin: No, it's not, but if it was-

Clare: Erin! It's me. I'm the wee… lesbian. (she looks nervous)

Erin: Aye, so you are, Clare.

Clare: I'm not joking.

Erin: (shocked) You're… You're a lesbian?

Clare: (smiling) I've never been brave enough to say it out loud before, but I think that's why I wrote the story, and then it all got too real. I got too scared, but now, well… you made me realise it's all okay.

Erin: Don't blame me.

Clare: (her face drops) What?

Erin: You fancy girls?

Clare: Well, that's sort of an entry-level requirement, Erin.

Erin: I think I'm gonna boke.

Clare: Do you mind? I'm trying to come out here.

Erin: Well don't. Don't come out. Go back in.

Clare: I don't wanna go back in.

Erin: Well, I'm sorry, Clare, but… I'm just not interested in you, not like that.

Clare: (angry) I'm not interested in you like that. Look at the state of you.

Erin: Oh, come off it!

Clare: Your arrogance is staggering, Erin.

Erin: Well, you know what else is staggering? Your gayness!

Clare: (looking upset) I really thought you'd understand.

[In the corridor. A girl puts up a poster for a talent show. Orla gazes at it interestedly.]

[In the Quinn kitchen.]

Erin: She won't even talk to me. She doesn't even want to sit beside me. In French, she moved next to Caoimhe Callaghan, so things must be bad, because Caoimhe reeks of piss.

Granda Joe: (gesturing towards Ciaran) Oh, for Christ's sakes. Is this bastard living with us now?

Sarah: (smoking) Daddy's dead funny, isn't he?

Ciaran: (awkwardly) Yeah.

Erin: I just want my old friend back.

Gerry: (putting his arm around Erin) She hasn't gone anywhere, love.

(Orla suddenly falls over in the background.)

[In the assembly hall at school.]

(Clare stands alone. She looks around sadly.)

(Erin, Michelle and James walk in. Erin waves at Clare. Clare ignores her and sits down.)

James: Can you blame her?

Michelle: Ignore him, Erin. These gays, they all stick together.

James: (annoyed) I'm not gay. 

(James pushes past Michelle and makes his way to sit with Clare.)

Michelle: What's wrong with being gay? He is such a fucking homophobe.

(Erin and Michelle walk towards other seats away from Clare and James.)

[Time lapse. Jenny is singing out of tune on stage.]

Jenny: (singing) It's the heart, afraid of breaking, that never learns to dance.

(Erin looks sadly towards Clare and James. James glances at her and she looks away.)

Erin: Now James isn't even speaking to me.

Michelle: Don't worry about James. James doesn't count.

(Erin looks sadly at Clare. Clare looks back.)

Jenny: (singing) Afraid of waking, that never takes the chance. (grabs mic dramatically)

(Aisling begins singing while playing piano.)

Jenny and Aisling: It's the ones, who won't be taken, who cannot seem to give, and the soul, afraid of dying, that never learns to live.

(Erin still looks miserable.)

(Light applause. Jenny and Aisling bow on stage, then walk away.)

Sister Michael: Lovely altogether. 

(Sister Michael walks towards the mic, rolling her eyes.)

Sister Michael: You know, every year, I sit backstage listening to the singers and it really makes me realise just how talented the professionals who originally recorded these tracks were. (walks away from mic) Now, who's on next?

[Time lapse. Four girls are Irish dancing on stage.]

(Sister Michael rolls her eyes. Everyone looks bored. They finish.)

Sister Michael: Christ, this is penance.

(Sister Michael walks towards the mic again.)

Sister Michael: I'm not doing it again. I mean it this time. (looks at paper) Up next we have… Orla McCool. (walks away)

(Clare looks at James. James looks shocked. They exchange a concerned look. Orla walks onstage.)

Erin: (to Michelle) Christ.

(Music starts playing and Orla looks dramatic as the song builds up. She begins her step aerobics.)

(Mandy and Tina laugh. Other girls exchange amused glances.)

(Orla continues with her step aerobics, oblivious to the audience's reactions.)

(More people laugh, until eventually everyone's laughing except Michelle, Erin, James and Clare.)

Mandy: (to Tina) What's wrong with her, like?

Tina: She's such a dick.

(Clare looks furious.)

(Erin furiously whacks Tina on the shoulder. Tina turns to face her.)

Erin: Yeah, she might be a dick. (stands up and shouts) But she's my dick!

Clare: (standing up and shouting) Actually, she's our dick!

(Erin and Clare smile at each other emotionally. They nod and walk towards each other.)

(James looks anxious.)

Michelle: (standing up) Oh, for fuck's sake.

(Erin, Clare, James and Michelle all walk up onto the stage. Orla looks happy as they dance along with her moves.)

[In the Quinn living room. Sarah and Mary stand in front of the TV with the baby.]

Newscaster: In what is already being described as one of the worst atrocities of the Northern Irish conflict.

(Sarah and Mary look upset, as Sarah holds Mary and rubs her arm.)

Newscaster: At least twelve people are thought to be dead, and many more wounded.

(Gerry joins them at the TV.)

Newscaster: Emergency services are urging anyone with medical training to come to the scene immediately. The device was detonated at 3pm this afternoon.

(Joe walks into the room, sees them standing by the TV and halts. He walks over and joins them.)

Newscaster: The RUC say no warning was given.

[In the assembly hall. The kids are still innocently dancing on stage.]

(Sister Michael looks emotional as she watches the kids dancing.)

[In the Quinn living room.]

(Joe and Gerry look shocked and upset as they continue watching the news.)

[In the assembly hall.]

(Erin, Clare and Michelle dance in a circle with their arms around each other. Orla and James hug and dance together.)

[In the Quinn living room.]

(Joe puts his hand on Gerry's shoulder.)

[In the assembly hall.]

(The kids happily and innocently continue to dance.)


















SEASON 2
EPISODE 1

[Views of Irish countryside. Erin is narrating.]

Erin: That summer was a remarkable one. It was the summer we dared to dream. For generations, we'd known nothing but violence. Nothing but hatred. But finally we were saying 'enough is enough'. Finally we were saying, 'let's give peace a chance.'

[In the Quinn bathroom. Erin is in the bath, talking to herself.]

(Orla opens the door.)

Orla: She's up here!

Erin: Jesus Christ!

Orla: She's pretending she's on Parkinson again.

Mary: (from downstairs) Parkinson?! Does she know what time it is?! I'll Parkinson her! I've enough on my plate without Parkinson!

Erin: Close the door!

(Orla walks in, and closes the door.)

Erin: No Orla. Leave, then close the door.

(Orla looks offended. She leaves and closes the door.)

Erin: (shouting) And it was Wogan, for your information!

[In the Quinn kitchen. Erin is wearing a 'Friends Across the Barricade' t-shirt. Clare sits at the table.]

Mary: And for the love of God, don't forget your waterproof trousers. (she hands Erin her trousers) They nearly bloody bankrupted us. Do the Protestants have to bring waterproof trousers? Or will the Catholics be expected to do all the dirty work?

(Sarah smokes.)

Erin: What dirty work? It's an outdoor pursuits weekend.

Mary: I thought you said you were building bridges?

Erin: Not real bridges, Mammy. Metaphorical bridges.

Mary: Then why can't you wear metaphorical trousers?

Sarah: (to Clare) Will any of your crowd be going, love?

Clare: My crowd?

Sarah: Or can you not get Protestant lesbians?

Clare: Naw, I think you can get them all right. It's just-

Granda Joe: I heard that K.D. Lang on the radio yesterday. Christ, but she's got some set of pipes on her. You're very talented people.

Clare: Thank you?

(Orla walks in, dressed in camo, carrying a torch.)

Orla: Has anyone seen my bow and arrow?

Sarah: Orla really thrives in the wild, you know. That time we went camping in Portsalon, sure, she was like Mowgli running around them woods. She was that happy, Mary, I honestly thought about just leaving her there.

Orla: (smiling and shining the torch around the room) Ach, Mammy.

(Joe is watching TV.)

TV: Because of government restrictions, we cannot broadcast the voice of Mr. Adams. His words are spoken by an actor.

Gerry: I will never understand the point of it.

Granda Joe: I'll never understand the point of you.

Gerry: Grand so.

(Doorbell rings.)

Erin: I'll go.

(Gerry sits down to watch TV with Joe. Erin walks to the door.)

Sarah: (walking over to the TV) It's because his actual voice is actually very seductive. Apparently, he sounds like a West Belfast Bond. As far as the English are concerned, a voice like that, well, it's dangerous.

Gerry: Just so I'm clear, are you saying that the British government dub the voice of Gerry Adams because it's too sexy?

Granda Joe: It's like a fine whiskey. And I have that on good authority, boy.

Gerry: Okay.

(Michelle and James stand at the front door.)

Michelle: (smiling) Fuck-a-doodle-doo.

James: Hi.

(Erin walks in and Michelle and James follow.)

Michelle: Bet that's what he said when he was nabbed.

Erin: When who got nabbed?

Michelle: Have yous not heard? You know your man? Floppy hair, English, he's all 'fuck-a-doodle this', 'fuck-a-doodle that'. He's flat out going to weddings with his mates until one of them, the fat, beardy one in the skirt, until he croaks it and they're all, 'We need to show this man a bit of respect here, let's stop all the clocks'. 

(Silence.)

Michelle: He goes with your woman. Do you know her? She's a total ride, but she paperclips her frocks together. Well, he was caught getting down and dirty with some hooker in the back of his BMW. (she picks up a piece of toast) Dark horse, or what?

Mary: Good morning, Michelle.

Michelle: I am buzzing for this weekend. Them waterproof trousers do wonders for my hole.

James: Mine are pink. They're bright pink.

Michelle: They were two for one, James. Stop crying.

Mary: (shocked) Two for one? Where?

Michelle: Kay's catalogue. Oh, and me mammy said to tell you…

Mary: Her big bowl. I know, I know, I keep forgetting. I'll drop it round today.

Michelle: No, she says to hang onto it.

(Mary turns in shock.)

Mary: What? She doesn't want her big bowl back? But why? There's nothing wrong with that bowl.

Sarah: Sure, I was admiring that bowl only yesterday.

Granda Joe: It's a grand bowl.

Michelle: I'm just the messenger, folks.

Sarah: Right.

Erin: We need to shift ourselves.

(They all get up with their bags.)

Mary: Listen, wains, I've already said this to Erin.

Erin: Mammy, please!

Mary: No funny business with these Protestant lads. Is that clear? I don't want anybody landing back here pregnant.

James: Not very likely in my case. (he laughs)

Granda Joe: Well, I wouldn't rule it out son.

Mary: Teenage boys can be very convincing, Erin. (she hands her a sandwich) I remember your father at that age and…

Erin: End that sentence now.

Gerry: Yes. Please do.

Granda Joe: Creep.

Erin: We're not doing this to get off with Protestant boys, Mammy. We're doing this to reach across the divide.

Mary: (to Michelle) Did your mother get a new big bowl?

Michelle: I don't think so.

Erin: We're doing this for peace.

Mary: All right, Erin! No need to make a big song and dance about it.

(The kids all walk out.)

[On the street. The kids walk with their bags.]

Michelle: We're doing it for peace, all right, Mary. A piece of that fine Protestant ass!

(Erin and Michelle high-five excitedly.)

Clare: (disgusted) God, you are such a hypocrite, Erin.

Erin: No, I'm not. I just don't think there's anything wrong with some cross-community…

Michelle: Fiddling.

Erin: Relations.

Orla: (looking at a map) So we need to head south-east for 0.5 miles and you'll receive further instructions shortly.

Erin: We haven't even left the estate yet, Orla.

Michelle: These Prods have some serious moves up their sleeves, you know. They're not as fucked up about sex as we are. They've put the work in. They know what they're doing.

Clare: They're people, Michelle. They're not sex toys.

Michelle: I beg to differ.

James: I'm really looking forward to making friends with some lads. (smiling)

Michelle: Lads aren't going to make friends with you, James. Lads make friends with other lads.

James: I am a lad.

Erin: Aye, so you are, James.

Clare: (taking money out of her pocket) Okay, how much money do we have?

Michelle: Look, the riding of the Protestants is one thing, but I don't see why we have to buy them a present. I mean they already have all the land, all the jobs and all the fucking rights.

Erin: Aye, Michelle. That's definitely the attitude we should have entering into this weekend.

[In Dennis' Wee Shop.]

Dennis: A present for Protestants.

(They all stare back at him. Clare, Erin and Michelle are all eating sweets.)

Dennis: Ah, now, my next Protestant gift delivery isn't due to arrive until Wednesday, and as it stands I'm completely out of stock, what with there being such a high fucking demand for that sort of thing around these parts.

Orla: (turning to the others) That's a shame.

Clare: (enthusiastically pointing) How much for the Subbuteo, Dennis?

Dennis: We'll call it sixteen quid.

(James looks shocked.)

James: Could we call it £1.76?

Dennis: No, we fucking couldn't.

Erin: How about, we give you the £1.76 and pay the rest off in instalments?

Clare: Yeah, which would be what? £3.56 over four weeks?

Dennis: Jesus, check out Rain Wain.

Erin: Or, you could give us the Subbuteo and then we work off the debt?

Clare: (sucking on sweet) Yeah, we could do chores and stuff.

Dennis: Chores? What do you think this is? Little House on the Fucking Prairie?

Orla: (smiling) Do you watch Little House on the Prairie, Dennis?

Dennis: (suddenly furious) Get out!

(The kids look taken aback as they walk out.)

[On a road. The kids are walking.]

Clare: Come on girls, this is embarrassing!

Michelle: Well, it's all right for you Clare, but we want to buck these lads. We have to offer them some kind of incentive.

Clare: They're not prostitutes, Michelle! And even if they were, I think a half-eaten packet of Rolos and an Ulster Bank key ring is a pretty insulting form of payment.

James: (smiling and holding up a pencil) I have a HB pencil!

Michelle: (taking the pencil) Happy days.

(Jenny and Aisling appear, holding a large present wrapped carefully.)

Jenny: Hi, guys!

Erin: That's not… That's not what you're giving to the Protestants, is it?

Jenny: It's just a little token, really.

Orla: Yeah. So's ours.

Aisling: Is that an Ulster Bank key ring?

Erin: It is indeed, yep.

Jenny: I must admit, I had a bit of an advantage when it came to the whole present buying thing, because…

Michelle: You're loaded.

Jenny: Because I know what they like. (smiling smugly) I happen to be very good friends with a half-Protestant.

Clare: What?

Michelle: They don't come in halves, Jenny.

Jenny: They do actually. I met her at ballet class. Her name's zara, and she has a horse.

Erin: Good for zara. Bye bye now.

(They all walk away from Jenny and Aisling.)

Clare: (annoyed) Of course she's friends with a half-Protestant! Of course she is!

Michelle: She has been fucking unbearable since them braces came off.

Erin: Dose.

Clare: (frantically) Well, I'm going to make friends with a full Protestant! See how she likes it. zara won't seem quite so impressive next to my thorough-bred, will she Jenny?!

Erin: Relax, Clare.

Michelle: Why has she got so much money, anyway? Who's her da? Pierce fucking Brosnan?

Erin: He's a surgeon over at Altnagelvin. He took Orla's tonsils out. (climbs into bus)

Orla: And not a day goes by when I don't think about them.

[On the road, in the bus.]

All: Give peace a chance! Give peace a chance! Give peace a chance! Give peace a chance!

[Getting off the bus.]

Jenny and Aisling: No hate! No hate! Let's integrate!

(Sister Michael steps out.)

Sister Michael: Kill me.

(The Protestant bus drives in.)

Michelle: (smiling) The Prods have landed!

(Everyone looks excited. The headmistress and the Protestant boys start stepping out.)

Miss Taylor: Single file!

(The boys line up outside the bus.)

Sister Michael: (walking over to headmistress) You must be Miss Taylor?

Miss Taylor: That's right. Well, Janet.

Sister Michael: Michael. Sister Michael.

(They shake hands coldly.)

Miss Taylor: It's a pleasure.

Sister Michael: I know.

Miss Taylor: (to the Protestants) Move it.

Sister Michael: (to the Catholics) Shift it.

(The kids all start walking inside the building.)

Miss Taylor: Why's everyone so desperate for them to mix? I think we should keep them separate.

Sister Michael: (looking impressed) I think we should keep them in cages.

(They exchange evil smirks.)

[Inside the building.]

Sister Michael: So, our Lady Immaculate girls have been split into groups, A through to F, as have the Londonderry Boys Academy.

(Erin and Michelle glance towards the boys.)

Miss Taylor: We'd like As to find As, Bs to find Bs, et cetera, and so on. It's very straightforward. However, if that isn't clear, feel free to say so.

Sister Michael: But know that you will be judged.

[Time lapse. The kids have found their partners.]

Erin: (holding a teddy bear) Ach, lads, you really shouldn't have.

Dee: (holding gift bag) I'm starting to see that all right.

(James smiles at his teddy bear.)

Michelle: (holding a teddy) I'm going to keep mine on my bed, where I sleep, in me knickers. (flirtatiously stares at Harry)

Harry: Right.

Dee: (holding Ulster Bank keyring) I mean, these are free for a start. My dad has, like, forty-five of them.

(James looks elated with his teddy bear.)

Jon: We were told it was an all girls school. You've been a bit short changed there.

James: Nah, it's fine, mate. It's all good, man. I'll… I'll just give it to my bird.

Jon: (looking confused) Your bird?

James: Yeah, she's really fit… and stuff.

Jon: Right, okay, great.

Clare: (to Harry) I'm sorry, but, is he okay?

(Harry puts his arm around Philip.)

Harry: Philip's actually deaf.

Clare: Oh.

Philip: In one ear.

Clare: He's deaf in one ear?

Harry: (nodding) That's right.

Clare: Which ear?

Philip: That's actually a very inappropriate question.

Clare: Is it?

Harry: It is, yeah.

Another Protestant guy: (with Jenny's present) Oh, my God! This is the best present ever!

Jenny: Aw, you guys!

Dee: (holding his Rolos) Rolo, anyone?

Sister Michael: Okay, listen up people! According to this, you're going to need a… well, they've used the term, 'buddy', for tomorrow's activities.

Michelle: I bagsy Harry! (she runs to Harry)

Erin: What? But that's not fair, he's the only good-looking one.

Dee: The rest of us are right here.

Michelle: You snooze, you lose, Erin.

(Michelle smiles at Harry. He looks awkward.)

Erin: (to Dee) I suppose I'll have you, then.

Dee: (offended) Aren't you a charmer?

James: (to Jon) So should us two bad bastards hook up, or what?

Jon: I'm sorry?

James: Um, will you be my buddy, please?

Jon: (looking confused) Sure.

(James smiles in embarrassment.)

Clare: Listen, Philip, about the whole 'which ear' thing…

Philip: It's fine. I'll be your partner.

Clare: (excited) Ah, great! And, just to be clear, are you a fully blown Protestant?

Philip: Of course.

(Clare excitedly stands beside him.)

Orla: Sister Michael! I don't have a Protestant!

Sister Michael: Well, you'll just have to share with James.

James: What? No.

(Orla looks happy.)

Sister Michael: Look, there just aren't enough Protestants to go round.

(Orla bops Jon in the nose with James' teddy. James looks sad.)

(Sister Michael and Miss Taylor stand together, drinking tea.)

Miss Taylor: The mediator's here. He's… one of your lot.

Sister Michael: (her face drops in dread) Not a priest?

(Miss Taylor nods. Sister Michael rolls her eyes in annoyance.)

Miss Taylor: Quite young. Southern. Bit of an arsehole, but oh my God… amazing hair.

(Sister Michael stops drinking her tea in shock.)

Sister Michael: Oh, for feck's sake.

[Time lapse. Father Peter has arrived.]

(Father Peter slicks his hair back with his hand, in slow motion.)

Father Peter: Okay, so I see a few familiar faces out there. As some of you may know, I took a bit of a sabbatical last year.

Michelle: Do you mean when you shacked up with a slutty hairdresser, but then she dumped you?

Sister Michael: Miss Mallon, please! Raise your hand if you want to ask a question.

(Michelle raises her hand.)

Father Peter: Okay, I think we should just move on.

Sister Michael: The hairdresser certainly did.

Father Peter: Okay, so this is just a little exercise I like to kick off with.

(Sister Michael sighs and lies back in her seat.)

Sister Michael: Ah, give me strength!

Father Peter: I want you guys to give me examples of things that Catholics and Protestants have in common, and things that they don't have in common. Let's start with the similarities. Erin, why don't you get the ball rolling?

Erin: Okay. So, we both… Right… So, we all… God, this is actually quite hard.

Father Peter: Anything at all, a small thing, even.

Erin: Okay, so… Right. (laughs) God, I'm actually drawing a blank here, to be honest. (shakes her head)

Father Peter: Not to worry. Someone else? A similarity. Yes?

Philip: (his hand is raised) Protestants are British and Catholics are Irish.

Father Peter: So, that's actually a difference. Quite a… Quite a big difference.

(Clare looks confused.)

Father Peter: But that's okay. We can write that down.

(Jenny writes it down in differences.)

Father Peter: Now, back to similarities. Yes?

Michelle: (hand raised) Protestants are richer.

Father Peter: Okay, so that's another difference. And I'm not sure that's actually… I mean, is that true?

Sister Michael: (nodding) I would say so.

Miss Taylor: Mmm, yeah, I suppose that's fair enough.

(Jon raises his hand.)

Father Peter: Yes, off you go.

Jon: Catholics really buzz off statues and we don't so much.

(Orla hugs the teddy she stole from James. She nods.)

Sister Michael: I do enjoy a good statue, it has to be said.

Father Peter: So again, what we have there is a difference.

Orla: (raising her hand) Ohh! Protestants like to march and Catholics like to walk.

Father Peter: Okay, can we just… Jenny, can you just…? Oh you've already written it down, have you?

(Jenny nods.)

Father Peter: Great. Thank you, Jenny.

(Sister Michael smirks softly.)

Father Peter: I just want to pause and think about what's in here. (points at his heart)

(Everyone looks confused.)

Father Peter: What about the fact that we all feel, and love, and hope, and… Write this down. We all cry. We all laugh. We all dream.

(Aisling hesitates awkwardly, and doesn't write anything.)

Father Peter: So I just want to think along those lines, for a moment. Okay?

Protestant boy: Catholics watch RTE!

Catholic girl: Protestants love cleaning!

Michelle: Protestants are taller!

Dee: Catholics have more freckles!

(Father Peter looks exhausted.)

Orla: Protestants hate Abba!

(Jenny has filled the board with differences.)

Father Peter: Okay, let me just rephrase slightly.

(Aisling's board of similarities is empty.)

Father Peter: Can you think of anything that unites every single person in this room?

(Silence.)

Father Peter: Is there anything that we all want?

Sister Michael: (bored) For this to be over.

Father Peter: And we'll wrap it up there.

[Night time. Michelle, Erin, Clare, James and Orla sneak out of their room in their pyjamas.]

Erin: I'm not sure about this.

Michelle: I knew you'd fanny out!

Erin: These lads have moves. You said so yourself, Michelle. And I haven't got any moves!

(They walk up the stairs.)

Michelle: Look, let's just get in there, have a few drinks, and just loosen up a bit.

Clare: No! No loosening up! I don't like it!

James: Just be confident, Erin. Boys like that.

Michelle: How the fuck would you know what boys like?

James: Cause I'm a boy, Michelle. I'm a real live boy.

Orla: Aw, yeah, like Pinocchio.

(They reach the boys' door.)

Michelle: (touching Erin's hair) Listen… be sexy, okay?

Erin: Sexy, right.

(Erin leans against the wall and pouts.)

Michelle: I said be sexy, not be a fucking blowfish, Erin.

(Erin looks offended and tries to be sexy again. Michelle knocks.)

(Jon opens the door, looking confused.)

James: Hello, mate.

Michelle: We heard you boys are having a party.

Jon: No?

Michelle: Well yous are now.

(They all walk into the room. Orla stares at Jon close to his face. He looks scared.)

[Time lapse. Music is playing.]

(Erin stands awkwardly.)

Dee: I really like this one. Have you seen the video?

Erin: Okay, let's cut the crap, Dee.

Dee: Sorry?

Erin: You know why I'm here. But before we begin…

Dee: Begin what?

Erin: I won't have as many moves as you. (shrugs) I just want to get that out there.

(Dee looks confused.)

Dee: I really don't know…

Erin: I haven't put the hours in, and that's not because I'm lazy, it's just not part of our culture. But if you're okay with that, I say we just crack on.

(She gazes at him intensely. He looks confused.)

(Orla crunches crisps in Jon's ear. He looks uncomfortable.)

James: Fancy another beer, mate?

(Jon looks at him and says nothing.)

James: Christ but I just love beer. Don't you just love beer?

Jon: Yeah, beer is nice.

(James smiles ecstatically.)

James: I love beer and football and poker and, you know, tits.

Jon: (looking disgusted) Tits?

James: Can't get enough of them. Then again, I am a lad.

Orla: Yeah, he may be a lad, Jon, but I can offer you protection. (lowers voice) I have a hunting knife.

Jon: Right. Okay. (he quickly moves away from Orla.)

James: Wait, wait, wait, wait. Where are you going?

Jon: Nature's calling.

Orla: Woah! Number one or number two?

Jon: Excuse me?

Orla: Just answer the question, Jon.

Jon: I don't want to answer the question. I'm not comfortable with the question.

Orla: Cause if it's a number two, it's safer to bury it. You don't want a pack of wolves following your scent out in these parts. Those boys, they'll tear you limb from limb.

Jon: We're inside.

Orla: They have very sophisticated noses, Jon.

Jon: (looking terrified) I'm going to go now. (walks away)

James: (to Orla) Can't you let me have anything for myself?

Orla: No.

(Michelle and Harry are kissing on the bed. They stop. Michelle clears her throat.)

Michelle: (stroking his arm) Do you want to go somewhere a bit more private?

Harry: I'm not sure that's a good idea.

Michelle: Why not?

(Harry holds up his wrist to show her a bracelet.)

Michelle: What the fuck's that?

Clare: (talking to Philip) And I think the reason I was interested in whether you were a fully-blown Protestant is because as far as I'm concerned, you can't be Protestant enough. I am all for the Protestants. I can't get enough of them. Protestant mad, I am. And I think… I may be running with this but… I'm sure you really like Catholics too, it's just that we have been conditioned to…

Philip: I don't.

Clare: What? You don't?

Philip: No. I hate them. I think they're all arseholes.

Clare: (looking offended) That's not true. That can't be true.

Philip: It is. And they're all thick as shit. I despise them. I really do.

Clare: (looking shocked) Okay.

Erin: (to Dee) So, how do you wanna… do this? (she moves towards him flirtatiously) Do you wanna kick things off, or, should I? (she puts her arm around him)

Dee: Oh, my God. Are you coming on to me? Is that what this is?

(Erin moves back, looking upset.)

Dee: I thought you were having some sort of breakdown.

(Michelle grabs Erin and pulls her aside.)

Michelle: He's wearing a purity bracelet.

Erin: What does that mean?

Michelle: No down-below action, that's what it fucking means! We have to swap.

Erin: Swap?

Michelle: Yeah, we'll just swap over. You take Harry, I'll take Lee.

Erin: Dee.

Michelle: Whatever.

Erin: We can't do that.

Michelle: Why not? You fancied him first, and your lack of moves won't be an issue.

Erin: That is true.

Michelle: Aye.

(Jon runs in and slaps the door.)

Jon: She's coming!

Erin: Who?

Jon: (frantic) The woman. The small, angry penguin woman.

Clare: (gasps) Sister Michael!

Michelle: Shit!

(They all run around in a fluster, hiding drinks.)

(Sister Michael walks in with Jenny. They all try to look normal.)

Erin: Oh, good evening, Sister. We just popped round because we had a few questions about the British Empire, which the boys have cleared up for us now, so…

Jenny: They weren't talking about the British Empire, Sister. They were having a party. I could hear the music.

Sister Michael: You will go far in life Jenny.

(Jenny smiles smugly.)

Sister Michael: But you will not be well liked. Honestly, girls! I need my eight hours, but I've had Mary Quinn on the phone frying my head and now this!

Erin: (worried) What? My mother rang? Why? Is everything okay?

Sister Michael: Oh, she was very distressed. She wanted me to pass on a message.

Erin: And… are you gonna?

Sister Michael: (sighs and rolls her eyes) Oh, fine. (she takes out a piece of paper) Uh, 'Erin, I need some information. Can you find out in a subtle way if Michelle's mother was given the big bowl by someone she has since fallen out with, and if she can no longer bring herself to look at the big bowl because it's just too painful? All the best, your mother, Mary.'

Erin: (turning to Michelle) Well?

Michelle: (shrugs) No.

Sister Michael: Shift it. Let's go. Come on. Quick.

(Erin, Michelle, Clare, James and Orla walk out of the room. Jenny looks satisfied.)

Sister Michael: Jenny.

(Jenny's smile fades and she follows.)

[The next day, on a hill in a field.]

Erin: (to Michelle) What's wrong with Clare? She hasn't said two words since last night.

Michelle: Well, I'm not complaining.

(Orla is clutching onto Jon. James is wearing his pink waterproof trousers.)

James: I just did it for a laugh. The trousers. I'll do anything for a laugh, me. I'm mad like that.

(Orla shoves James.)

Jon: Right.

Michelle: All right, there they are.

Erin: Okay, if we're gonna do this, Michelle, we need to do it delicately.

Michelle: Of course. Oi! Lads! We want to swap!

Erin: (annoyed) Brilliant!

Dee: Swap?

Michelle: Yeah. Erin's gonna have Harry now and I'm gonna have you, all right?

(They say nothing.)

Michelle: Great stuff. (gives thumbs up)

[Beside rocks.]

Father Peter: I think we all can agree that for generations there's been a deep lack of trust between your communities. And that's where abseiling comes in.

Sister Michael: (rolling her eyes) Jesus Christ.

Father Peter: Abseiling is a great trust-building exercise, because what you're doing is, you're saying to your buddy, 'lean on me, I'm here for you.' Now, let me see who's first. Ah, Clare. Clare Devlin, there you are.

Clare: Ah, I'm not sure about this.

Michelle: (pushing Clare) You'll be grand.

Clare: No, listen, you don't understand.

Father Peter: Now, where's your buddy?

(Philip raises his hand.)

Father Peter: Good man, yourself. Come on up.

(Clare looks terrified. Philip walks towards her.)

[On top of the mountain.]

Father Peter: Philip will control Clare's descent, by feeding her rope through what's known as a belay device. So he'll be the one actually dictating the speed of her drop.

Clare: I think if it's okay, I'd just like to take a moment, and just…

(The man pushes her backwards. She screams.)

Clare: Jesus! Ahhhh! Ahhhh!

Father Peter: Are you ready, Philip?

Philip: Ohh, yeah. (he smiles down at Clare)

(Clare shakes her head in terror and whimpers.)

Father Peter: Okay, so, on three.

Clare: Seriously, folks, I'm not feeling entirely comfortable with this!

(Philip smiles.)

Father Peter: One… two…

(Clare screams.)

Father Peter: Three.

(Philip begins feeding the rope through. Clare drops suddenly. She screams.)

Clare: Stop! Stop it! Get me out of here! He's trying to kill me!

(Michelle looks entertained. Erin looks worried.)

Clare: He wants to kill us all! All of the Catholics!

(Philip looks confused.)

Clare: Look at his eyes, he's a madman! A Fenian-hating madman!

(Everyone looks up at her in confusion.)

Clare: Don't let the Jaffa bastard hurt me! Please!

(Michelle laughs.)

Erin: Jesus, Clare!

Michelle: Fuck-a-doodle-doo!

Clare: He said he hated us!

Philip: No, I didn't.

Clare: Last night, you said you hated Catholics! Admit it!

Philip: I said I hated athletes! I'm not much of a sports fan.

Clare: But we weren't even talking about athletes!

Philip: Yeah, well, I thought we were.

Clare: Why would you have thought we were talking about athletes?!

Philip: Because, I'm deaf in one ear!

(Clare pauses suddenly and realises her mistake.)

Michelle: Catholics sounds a bit like athletes, to be fair to him, like!

(Everyone mutters in agreement.)

Dee: They're all arseholes.

Erin: What's that supposed to mean?

Harry: You tried to swap us.

Dee: Because all Protestants are the same? Aren't they, girls?

Michelle: Yes.

Erin: No!

Jon: (turning to James) And this guy's really creepy, and a bit sort of sexist. (turning to Orla) And she carries a knife and makes people bury their own excrement.

(Orla nods in agreement.)

Protestant boy: Fucking Catholics.

Michelle: Who said that?!

Erin: Who?!

(They all start fighting. Sister Mary and Miss Taylor drink their tea peacefully.)

Miss Taylor: Should we break it up?

Father Peter: (people grabbing his hair) Don't touch the hair! Don't touch the hair!

Sister Michael: Let's leave it a minute. (she eats a biscuit)

[Outside the building. The parents have arrived.]

Mary: I just cannot get my head around it.

Gerry: For the love of God, Mary, it's only a bowl.

Mary: Who just gives away their big bowl, Gerry? It doesn't make sense.

Granda Joe: Aye, she's definitely up to something, love.

Sarah: I have always said that Deidre Mallon was a bit fly.

Granda Joe: I'd confront her about it.

Mary: Oh, I intend to.

Gerry: Great. Do that. Then maybe we can lay the whole bloody thing to rest.

Granda Joe: Take that tone with her again and I'll lay you to rest, boyo!

[Inside the building. The kids all sit in a circle with their parents.]

Gerry: (to Clare's mum) Do you know what this is about, Geraldine?

Geraldine: As far as I can make out, these lads tried to throw my Clare off a cliff.

Gerry: Desperate.

(Deidre walks in.)

Deidre: You all right, Mary? How's the big bowl working out for you?

Mary: Great. Great. Thanks very much, Deidre.

Gerry: Well, that got to the bottom of it, all right.

(Mary glares at him. Joe glares at him.)

Father Peter: Is that everyone? Lovely stuff.

(Sister Michael and Miss Taylor look annoyed, with their arms crossed. Sister Michael has her back to Peter.)

Father Peter: Okay, so, there was a bit of a misunderstanding on the expedition today, which unfortunately led to a physical altercation. I thought rather than let it fester, we should talk about it, and start to heal, and repair. So, who'd like to go first?

[Time lapse. Everyone is fighting.]

Geraldine: (to Clare) Jaffa bastard? You actually said those words?!

Clare: (crying) It just came out, Mammy!

Sarah: (to Orla) But why were you threatening people with a knife, love? (feeds Orla cake)

Father Peter: Okay, one at a time, please.

Philip's dad: Well if you'd wear the bloody hearing aid I paid a fortune for, you'd have heard what she said!

Harry's dad: Girls! Girls! You were fighting with girls!

Granda Joe: (to Gerry) This is all your fault, you know. I knew this would happen. See that child over there…

(Erin walks past the mayhem, up to the 'similarities' blackboard. She writes 'Parents'. She exchanges a smile with Dee.)



Episode 2

[In the assembly hall at school.]

Sister Michael: As you all know, at the beginning of term, the Bishop graciously bestowed a beautiful piece of religious art onto Our Lady Immaculate College, the enchanting Child of Prague.

(She pulls away a piece of fabric to reveal the statue.)

(James looks deeply confused.)

Sister Michael: There we are. Sure, isn't he a great fella altogether?

James: I still don't get what it's supposed to be.

Michelle: It's Jesus as a wain.

James: (tilting his head) Why's he got a big red hat on?

Michelle: Nobody knows.

Sister Michael: It was the Bishop's wish that he be passed around all the schools in the Derry Diocese. Therefore we are joined this morning by Mr. Malone, headmaster of St. Benedict's, so that the handover ceremony can take place. You are very welcome, Mr. Malone. Though I fear you may have had a wasted journey. I've thought about it, and I'd much rather just hold onto him, actually. (she smiles) He brightens up my office. (sternly) He doesn't answer back.

(The kids look awkward.)

Sister Michael: I like the fella. And if the Bishop has a problem with that, he can take it up with me. Now, what else was there? (she takes a sheet of paper) Ah, yes. Sadly, Sister Patrick has decided to leave us.

(Erin yawns.)

Sister Michael: She's returning to her missionary work, educating the heathen inhabitants of a primitive and savage place.

Woman: She's taking a teaching post in Belfast, Sister.

Sister Michael: Precisely. The Board of Governors promised me that her replacement would arrive today, but as usual they were talking out of their…

(Door bangs. Sister Michael looks up. New English teacher, Ms. De Brún stands at the back of the hall with a helmet in her hand.)

Ms. De Brún: I believe you've been expecting me.

(The students all look shocked and excited. Orla shakes her head.)

Sister Michael: (rolling her eyes) Here we go.

[In the English classroom.]

(Ms. De Brún writes her name on the blackboard. As she finishes, she whacks the chalk across the room and sits down with her feet up. She sighs.)

(Erin waits expectantly. Jenny raises her hand.)

Jenny: What is it we should be doing, Miss?

Ms. De Brún: What should you be doing? (puts her feet down on the floor) Now, there's the question. But let me ask you a better one. What is it you want to do?

Michelle: Get pished.

Erin: (annoyed) Hmm.

Jenny: I'd quite like some feedback on the poetry assignment, actually.

Michelle: Dickhead.

Jenny: It counts towards our final grade, people!

Ms. De Brún: This is 12A, right?

Jenny: That is correct, Miss.

Ms. De Brún: And you are?

Jenny: Jenny. Jenny Joyce.

(Ms. De Brún looks through the assignments until she finds Jenny's.)

Ms. De Brún: Here we go. (stands up) The Flower, by Jenny Joyce.

Jenny: You're not going to read it out, are you?

Ms. De Brún: Of course. Poetry should always be read aloud.

(Erin looks inspired. Jenny looks uncomfortable.)

Ms. De Brún: Some flowers are tall, some flowers are small, some flowers barely grow at all. (throws sheet on the floor) Okay.

Jenny: That's not the end.

Ms. De Brún: It should be.

(Jenny looks offended.)

Ms. De Brún: (flicking through the sheets) Here's a poem about a dog. Here's another one about a dog. This one has no name on it. 'An English Rose Among Thorns'?

(James awkwardly raises his hand.)

Ms. De Brún: Yeah, I can see why you might want to remain anonymous, all right.

(James looks embarrassed.)

Ms. De Brún: Dog poem. Poem about a tree. This one's called 'Boys'. I think boys are really class, especially the ones who have a nice ass.

Michelle: (looking proud) It's called a haiku.

Ms. De Brún: That's not what I would call it.

(Michelle looks deflated.)

Ms. De Brún: Dog poem. Dog poem. (throwing sheets on the floor) Oh, here someone's just drawn a picture of a dog.

(Orla looks up suddenly.)

Ms. De Brún: That is not bad, actually. (sets sheet on her desk)

Orla: Thank you very much.

Ms. De Brún: This person has written about how much they love their English class, in an embarrassing attempt to suck up to the teacher.

(Clare looks embarrassed and regretful.)

Ms. De Brún: (continuing to throw sheets on the floor.) Dog poem. Dog poem. Cat poem.

(Erin raises her hand.)

Ms. De Brún: Yes?

Erin: I think a lot of people in this class, and I know no one will mind me saying this, well, they have a very basic grasp of the creative process.

(Michelle gives Erin a dirty look.)

Erin: Whereas I've been writing for years, so I'm really not afraid to put myself out there. To be bold. To take risks.

Ms. De Brún: And you are?

Orla: That's my cousin.

Erin: Erin Quinn.

Ms. De Brún: Erin Quinn. (picks up sheet) Here we go.

(Erin smiles.)

Ms. De Brún: (reading Erin's poem) The bullet's fired on the streets as I lie in my bed, are nothing to the bullets being fired… in my head.

Erin: It's about The Troubles, in a political sense, but also about my own troubles, in a personal sense.

Ms. De Brún: No, I understand the weak analogy. This isn't bold, Erin. It's someone failing to be bold.

Erin: I'm sorry if the subtleties of my work were lost on you, Ms. De Brún.

Ms. De Brún: Poetry is truth. And great poetry is raw and real and messy and glorious and ugly. It is dragged from the depths of the soul. It helps us understand each other and ourselves. Do you get what I'm saying?

Erin: (looking emotional) Yes. Yes, I think I do, actually.

Michelle: Not a baldies.

Ms. De Brún: It's not often in life you're allowed to tear up the page and start over. (tears page in half) But I am gonna give you that chance. (throws paper on the floor) Impress me.

[At the cinema.]

Mary: Ach, this is lovely, Gerry.

Gerry: I thought it'd be nice for us to do something together, just the two of us, you know?

Sarah: Mary! Gerry!

(Mary and Gerry turn in shock.)

Sarah: You're not allowed to smoke in this place. Can you believe that? It's barbaric.

Gerry: Sarah, what are you doing here?

Sarah: Mary said you were having a wee night to yourselves, so I thought you might want some company.

Gerry: Why? W-why would you think that?

Ciaran: Sarah!

Gerry: Ah, himself as well, is it? Great!

Mary: (fake smiling) Sweet Jesus.

Ciaran: (smiling) Hiya, how are ye?

Sarah: They don't let you smoke in here, Ciaran. Can you credit it?

Ciaran: This is a nice surprise. When Sarah asked me to the cinema, I thought, well, I thought she meant just the two of us.

Gerry: No, Ciaran, because that would be… what's the word now? Normal.

Ciaran: Double date it is then, so.

Mary: Wonder what's keeping Daddy.

(They look shocked.)

Gerry: Excuse me?

(Granda Joe appears.)

Granda Joe: (holding tickets) I've got the tickets.

Mary: We haven't decided what we want to see yet, Da!

Granda Joe: Well, I liked the look of that one with all the lads in the line-up. It's got your man in it, the farmer from Glenroe.

Mary: What, Gabriel Byrne?

Ciaran: He's done a fair bit since Glenroe now.

Granda Joe: And who are you? His agent?

Mary: Da, I don't understand this. You hate the cinema.

Granda Joe: Oh, not since I discovered it's the only way I can spend time with our Colm. It's the one place the boring bastard doesn't talk.

Mary: But Colm's not here, is he, Da?

(Joe doesn't say anything. Mary looks worried.)

Mary: Da?

(Colm is at the till, talking to the cashier. There is a long queue behind him.)

Uncle Colm: And that's not to say, now, that in my younger years, I didn't enjoy a boiled sweet, but then I heard tell of a fella from Ballynahinch… What was it his name was, now?

(The cashier looks at the queue impatiently.)

Uncle Colm: I had it there a minute ago. Ach, it'll come to me. Anyway, this Ballynahinch lad, and as I say, his name escapes me…

(Mary looks at Colm in dread.)

Uncle Colm: But he was mad keen on the boiled sweets. Sure, he couldn't get enough of them. But in the end, well, didn't he choke to death on one? A pear drop, I think it was. Or a clove rock maybe…

(Cashier mouths an apology to the others in the queue.)

Uncle Colm: But either way, it's not how I'd want to go. (shaking his head)

Mary: (to cashier) I know, love. I know. (she leads Colm away from the till)

[In the screen, watching the film. Joe sits between Mary and Gerry. Colm sits between Ciaran and Sarah.]

Gerry: Well, isn't this romantic?

Granda Joe: (shouting) Thon fella's nothing but a fly bastard! Don't you be trusting him!

Gerry: (to Mary) I just want to check, does your father think that they can hear him?

Mary: Shh!

(Doors open suddenly. Three men walk in.)

Man: Apologies, folks. We've just had a wee security alert there. I'm afraid we're gonna have to carry out a wee evacuation. So, if you'll all follow me. Lovely, great stuff.

(They all start walking out.)

Granda Joe: (to Gerry) That's the last time I let you organise a night out.

Gerry: Okay, then.

Mary: What about this Keyser Soze fella?

Sarah: Who's Keyser Soze?

Mary: Exactly!

[In the Quinn kitchen. The kids are eating junk food and writing.]

Clare: (frustrated) God, this whole writing-from-the-soul carry-on is a nightmare.

James: I know.

Michelle: What rhymes with ride?

Clare: Bide.

Michelle: Bide? What the fuck does bide mean? Bide. That's not a word.

Clare: It is a word, Michelle.

Michelle: Bide? You've pure made that up.

Erin: Can we all be quiet? Please.

Orla: (holding up a picture she drew of James) What do you think, James? You've got red eyes cause I ran out of brown.

James: My eyes are green.

Orla: Now you tell me. (she looks distraught)

Erin: Okay. So, I'm trying not to think too much. Just to sort of let it flow through me.

Michelle: Aw, that's minging Erin.

Erin: (annoyed) Here's what I have so far. You know we belong together, you and I, forever and ever. No matter where you are, you're my guiding star.

James: Isn't that the theme tune to Home and Away?

Erin: Is it? (frustrated) Aw, for God's sake!

[Door opens.]

Erin: Shit!

(They start stuffing food into their mouths and clearing wrappers.)

Gerry: My money's on Alec Baldwin's brother.

Mary: It's Gabriel Byrne. I'm telling you.

Granda Joe: The fella with the bad leg said it wasn't, Mary.

Mary: The fella with the bad leg's covering for him, Da!

(Erin looks guilty as she chews a mouthful of junk food.)

Mary: Sweet Jesus!

Erin: (mouth full) Mammy, we can explain.

Mary: (devastated) Not the Christmas cupboard?

Sarah:  They've had the very Tunnock's, Mary.

(Clare looks terrified.)

Mary: Animals, the lot of you!

Erin: We needed energy for our poetry.

Mary: I'll give you energy for your poetry!

Clare: (shaking and panicking) We were just gonna take a handful of chocolate money, Mary, but then one thing led to another.

Mary: What am I supposed to do? I'll have to start from scratch now. And December's only round the corner.

Gerry: It's eight months away, love.

(Mary glares at Gerry.)

Granda Joe: (to Gerry) This suits you, doesn't it?

Gerry: I'm sorry?

Granda Joe: I've seen you eyeing up that Christmas cupboard! You hoked about in there long before the wains did. I'll stake my life on it.

Gerry: That is simply not true.

Mary: Let's just salvage what we can.

Sarah: (lifting the Snowballs) There's only a couple of Snowballs left, Mary.

(Mary looks appalled.)

Sarah: It's been an absolute free-for-all.

Mary: Your mothers will be hearing about this.

Michelle: Aw, for f…

Sarah: What got into you, girls? You know you don't touch the Christmas cupboard.

Erin: We're stressed! Our new English teacher made us rip up all our poems and redo them in one night.

Granda Joe: Who is this blow-in?

Michelle: Her name's Ms. De Brún. She's a bit of a bitch but, cracking eyeliner.

Sarah: Winged or smudged?

Michelle: Sort of both.

Sarah: Interesting.

Mary: She ripped up your poems?

Erin: She said we weren't writing from the soul.

Mary: Well why in under God weren't you writing from the soul?!

Erin: Seriously?

[At school. The kids are looking at photographs on the wall with Ms. De Brún.]

Ms. De Brún: It was difficult, so you've just given up? You might fail, so why bother trying?

Michelle: Exactly. Told you she'd understand.

(Orla smiles.)

Ms. De Brún: Have you ever stopped to look at these? These faces from the past. They're not so different from you, really. They had dreams like you do. They had… ambitions. But now, they're gone. Dead. Dust.

Clare: (whispering) That's my Auntie Anne third from the left. She's not dead.

Erin: Shhh!

Clare: But she's only fifty-four. She runs the mobile library in Ballymagroarty.

Erin: Quiet.

Ms. De Brún: But did they fulfil those dreams, those ambitions? One day, girls, you too will just be an old photograph in a hallway. You only get one life. Don't be afraid to live it. Find your voice. Make your mark. (she walks away)

(Erin looks inspired. Michelle smiles. Orla looks indifferent. James and Clare look confused.)

[Time lapse. The kids are happily writing their poems.]

[In the English classroom. Ms. De Brún reads to the class.]

[In the playground.]

Ms. De Brún: Dig deep, something you hate, something you despise. No holding back! Come on! Get it out! 

(She throws a ball at Erin, first of the class in the queue.)

Erin: (hitting the ball) Injustice!

Ms. De Brún: Yes! (throwing ball at Clare)

Clare: (hitting the ball) Prejudice!

Ms. De Brún: Good! This is good!

[In the changing rooms. Clare, Erin and Michelle all check out their winged eyeliner in the mirror.]

[In the playground.]

Michelle: (hitting the ball) Mass!

Ms. De Brún: Come on!

Orla: (hitting the ball) My own socks!

Ms. De Brún: Okay!

Jenny: (hitting the ball) Being late for school!

James: The fact that people here use the word 'wee' to describe things that aren't even actually that small! (hits ball)

Ms. De Brún: God, but I love that accent, James!

(James smiles.)

[In the changing rooms. Orla and James apply winged eyeliner.]

[In the corridor.]

(The kids walk in slow motion confidently, with their new eyeliner on.)

(Orla swings her ponytail.)

(Sister Michael walks in front of them with her arms folded.)

[On the street at night.]

Erin: Ms. De Brún's amazing. I've just never met anyone like her.

James: She's an inspiration.

Clare: Absolutely.

Michelle: She really knows how to grab things by the balls!

Clare: Oh yeah!

(Orla looks confused.)

Erin: She's changed my life, she really has.

James: (beaming) She likes my accent.

Orla: I'd die for her.

Erin: I think I would too, you know.

James: Me, too.

Michelle: Aye, fuck it. Why not?

Clare: Yeah! I mean, obviously, I totally agree, I'd die for her as well, but I'm also conscious of the fact that we've only known her, like, two days.

Erin: And?

Clare: Well, is it a bit weird she's invited us round to her house at night?

Erin: What do you mean?

Clare: Well, she's a teacher.

Erin: She's much more than a teacher.

Clare: Yeah. No. Obviously. I get that. She's great, but it's just that I've a feeling it might be, sort of, frowned upon.

Erin: God, Clare. You're so conditioned.

Clare: What's that supposed to mean?

Michelle: It means you need to loosen the fuck up.

Clare: I am loose, thank you very much.

Michelle: Face it, Clare, you're a craic killer.

Clare: (stops walking) I'm not a craic killer.

(The others walk on.)

Clare: I am not a craic killer!!

[In Ms. De Brún's house.]

Ms. De Brún: (holding a glass of wine out to Clare) Some wine?

Clare: Oh, no. Actually, I don't… (she hesitates, then holds out her hand) Cheers.

(Clare downs the whole glass of wine.)

Clare: Hit me again.

Ms. De Brún: Okay. (she laughs and pours more wine)

Michelle: You don't have much stuff.

Ms. De Brún: Everything I own can fit into a suitcase.

(Clare downs another glass of wine.)

Ms. De Brún: I've never understood why people weigh themselves down with meaningless crap, you know?

Erin: Yeah, God, I just hate possessions so much.

Orla: Does that mean I can have your Sylvanian Family collection?

Erin: Shut up, Orla.

Ms. De Brún: I don't like to feel tied down, you know. Life should be spontaneous, free.

(James smiles at Ms. De Brún.)

Erin: Big time.

Ms. De Brún: (holding up wine glass) Slainte.

(The kids all hold up their wine glasses.)

Clare: This is actually nice.

Orla: Mmm, it tastes a bit like blood.

Ms. De Brún: Life is no brief candle to me. It is a sort of splendid torch, which I have got hold of for the moment, and I want to make it burn as brightly as possible.

Erin: That's beautiful.

Ms. De Brún: Shaw. It's my favourite quote.

(Clare pours another glass of wine.)

Michelle: Take it easy, Oliver Reed.

Ms. De Brún: What's yours?

Erin: Be careful, child, of the doll made of glass. For if you hold her too tightly, she will break, and you will bleed.

Ms. De Brún: I don't think I'm familiar with that one. Who's it by?

Erin: Me. It's by me.

Ms. De Brún: Wow!

(Erin smiles proudly and nods.)

(Clare downs another glass of wine.)

[On the street.]

(Clare is drunk.)

Clare: I feel all floaty.

Michelle: She's absolutely fucking flying.

(Jenny Joyce appears.)

Jenny: Well, well, well. What are you guys up to?

Erin: Nothing much.

Clare: We've just been hanging out at Ms. De Brún's house.

Jenny: You were at her house? At night? Well, that's a bit inappropriate.

Clare: Your ma is a bit inappropriate.

Jenny: That doesn't even make sense.

Clare: Your ma doesn't even make sense.

Jenny: Is she drunk?

Clare: Your ma's drunk.

Erin: Okay, Clare. I think we get the idea. Lovely seeing you, Jenny.

Michelle: Take care now.

(They walk away.)

[In the Quinn kitchen.]

Mary: I never slept a wink last night, you know.

Sarah: Me either.

Mary: Keyser Soze?

Sarah: Naw. I went to bed with my rollers in. Sure, it's always a nightmare.

Mary: Then why do you do it?

Sarah: I've no volume at the root, Mary. What choice do I have?

Granda Joe: I'm leaning towards Pete Postlethwaite now.

Mary: It wasn't Pete Postlethwaite, Da. It's never Pete Postlethwaite. Look, this is driving me to distraction. We'll have to go back tonight.

Gerry: It's not in the listings anymore, love.

Mary: What?

Gerry: The cinema's stopped showing it.

Granda Joe: Oh, well done.

Gerry: It's not my fault.

Granda Joe: Ah, sure, nothing ever is.

Mary: (worried) What are we meant to do?

Gerry: Wait for them to release it on video.

Mary: I can't, Gerry! I can't go on like this! I need to know.

(Erin and Orla come downstairs.)

Erin: Well, that's us away.

Sarah: (to Orla) Where's your socks, love?

Orla: They're just not for me, Mammy. I'm sorry.

Sarah: You'll be foundered.

Orla: I know what I'm doing.

Erin: Have a great day, everyone.

Mary: What are you in such a good mood about?

(Orla walks out the door.)

Erin: Just, you know, life.

Mary: You're up to something, and I'll get to the bottom of it. Honest to God, Erin, between you and Keyser Soze, my head is turned.

(Orla walks back in.)

Erin: Who's Keyser Soze?

Gerry: God almighty!

[In the English classroom. The kids walk in.]

(Sister Michael is wiping Ms. De Brún's name off the blackboard. Erin's face drops.)

Sister Michael: Take a seat please, ladies.

Erin: Where's Ms. De Brún?

Sister Michael: Gone. And she's not coming back.

Erin: What?!

Clare: I knew it. When I woke up this morning, I had a feeling something terrible was going to happen and also that essentially, deep down, I'm quite an evil person.

Michelle: It's called a hangover, Clare. You'll be grand.

Sister Michael: I will be taking this class for the rest of the term, which makes me want to pull off my own face, but needs must.

Erin: (to Jenny) This was you, wasn't it? What did you do? What did you say?

Jenny: I don't know what you're talking about.

Erin: Aye, so you don't. Supergrass!

Sister Michael: That's quite enough!

Erin: You don't understand, Sister. Ms. De Brún, she touched us.

Sister Michael: What?

Erin: She made us think, she made us feel.

Sister Michael: (sighing) Oh, thank God! That would be all I need.

Erin: You can't sack her! You just can't!

(Clare drops her head into her hand, in pain.)

Sister Michael: (walking towards Erin) Miss Quinn, you appear to be under the misapprehension that you can address me as though you are my equal! I suggest you rein it in, and take a seat.

(The kids sit down and Jenny smiles with satisfaction.)

[Outside Sister Michael's office.]

Clare: (to Michelle) What if she's in there?

Michelle: It's Friday. She's at judo. Relax the kecks, Clare. (tuts)

(Michelle opens the door of Sister Michael's office. Clare looks terrified. They all walk in cautiously.)

[In Sister Michael's office. The kids stand before the Child of Prague statue.]

Michelle: Creepy wee fucker, isn't he?

Clare: I would just like to state once again for the record that I think this might be the worst idea we've ever had!

Erin: Look, do you want to help Ms. De Brún or not?

Clare: Can we not find a way to help her that doesn't involve abducting a holy statue?

Erin: We're not abducting him, Clare. We're… kidnapping him.

Clare: (frantic) Is that different? I don't think that's different.

Erin: We'll give him back on the condition that Ms. De Brún is rightfully reinstated.

Clare: Oh, I'm sure Sister Michael will be fully on board with that.

Orla: Aye, me too.

Michelle: Okay, let's do the photograph.

Erin: Great, I'll write the ransom note.

James: (holding a camera) We need a copy of today's newspaper.

Clare: Why?

James: It's just the done thing, kidnapping-wise.

Orla: I've got last week's parish bulletin.

Michelle: That'll do.

Erin: (writing at the desk) I'm going to use my left hand just in case she recognises my handwriting.

Clare: Oh, well this is foolproof!

(James takes a photo of the statue.)

Erin: Should I start, 'Dear Sister Michael,' or 'To whom it may concern,' do you think?

(Clare looks furious.)

Michelle: (looking at the photograph) I don't know about this one. I think he looks a bit fat in it.

Orla: Yeah, that's not flattering.

Michelle: (moving the statue) Right, maybe if we just tilt him this way a bit.

James: (trying to move the statue) See, I think he needs to come forward a bit.

Michelle: It was fine where it was, dicko.

(They fight over the statue.)

James: Look, I'm the one taking the photo.

Michelle: Fuck off!

James: Just leave it, Michelle.

(They drop the statue. His head falls off and rolls across the floor.)

Clare: Ah! Good God!

(Erin picks the head off the floor.)

Erin: Okay. So we've gone a bit off course here.

Orla: Let's glue him!

Michelle: Brilliant! We'll just… we'll just stick it back on, and it'll be grand.

(They quickly try to glue the head back on.)

(Sister Michael runs in, in her judo outfit.)

Sister Michael: Jesus, girls! What are you still doing here? I thought we had an intruder, and I tell you what, he'd have been a sorry boy, for I just nailed some serious moves.

(The kids look worried and guilty.)

(Sister Michael crosses her arms.)

Erin: We were just working on our English project, Sister.

(Clare nods.)

Sister Michael: Step aside.

(The kids don't move. Sister Michael clicks her fingers at them. They move to reveal the statue, with its head glued on upside down. Sister Michael looks distraught.)

Sister Michael: What in God's name have you done?

[Time lapse. Miss Mooney is taking a photo of the statue. Sister Michael sits sadly at her desk.]

Erin: How could you have glued his head on upside down, Orla? He's wearing a hat, for Christ's sake!

Sister Michael: Quiet!

(Geraldine Devlin walks in. Mary, Sarah and Deidre are already there.)

Geraldine: All right, Mary, Sarah, Deidre. Your girls involved in this beheading too, then?

Clare: It wasn't me, Mammy!

Geraldine: (furious) Do not speak to me, Clare! In fact, don't even breathe.

(Clare looks shocked. She holds her breath.)

Sister Michael: Take a seat, Mrs. Devlin.

(Geraldine sits down.)

Sister Michael: The statue was stolen from this room, so I've asked Miss Mooney to photograph the scene. Either it is replaced, at your expense, or the school will sue!

Sarah: To be honest, Sister, and I'm not just saying this, I think he looks better.

Sister Michael: He looks like his head's on upside down.

(Mary elbows Sarah.)

Sister Michael: And I'll be suspending them for a week!

Clare: Oh, please God, no!

Deidre: A week? We're going to be stuck with them for a week?

Geraldine: Be reasonable, Sister. We didn't behead the fella.

Mary: By Christ, you're in for it, Erin.

Erin: It was an accident, Mammy.

Sister Michael: Oh, so you accidentally wrote a ransom note, did you?

Erin: Okay, that bit wasn't an accident. But we were so upset by what happened to Ms. De Brún. It was wrong. She shouldn't have been sacked.

Sister Michael: She wasn't.

Erin: What?

(Knock on door. Ms. De Brún walks in.)

Ms. De Brún: Sorry to interrupt, Sister, but if I could just grab the old P45, then I'll be out of your way.

Erin: Excuse me?

Sister Michael: Ms. De Brún has decided to leave us.

Ms. De Brún: I got offered a post in St Dominic's Girls. Better wages, holiday pay, great pension, the works. I couldn't say no, really.

Erin: But what happened to living for the moment? What happened to “Life should be spontaneous”?

Ms. De Brún: Yeah, I know, but I'm buying a house and the mortgage rates are absolutely crippling at the minute.

Mary: Awk tell me about it.

Sister Michael: Part of the reason I became a nun – free accommodation.

Erin: But Ms. De Brún, you inspired me to do my greatest work.

Ms. De Brún: I see. Which was…?

Erin: My poem. My glass doll poem. She's a doll made of glass. She's a glass doll. I read it to you last night.

Ms. De Brún: Yeah, I wasn't really listening, to be honest.

Erin: (shocked) Oh!

(Sister Michael passes something to Ms. De Brún.)

Ms. De Brún: Cheers.

(Ms. De Brún starts walking out the door. She turns to the kids.)

Ms. De Brún: Carpe diem.

(She walks out.)

Michelle: Carpe dickhead.

(Michelle chuckles. Her mum gives her a stern look. She immediately stops laughing.)

Erin: Well, I guess we never knew who the real Ms. De Brún was.

Mary: A bit like Keyser Soze.

Sister Michael: The fella with the bad leg.

Mary: What?

Sister Michael: Keyser Soze. He was the fella with the bad leg. He was talking absolute shite the whole time. He was one of those… er, what do you call it? Unreliable narrators.

(Mary and Sarah look shocked and amazed.)

Mary: Well, that's very clever.

Sister Michael: Yeah, I thought so, too.

Miss Mooney: Look this way, girls.

(The kids all stand to get their picture taken.)



EPISODE 3

[In the Quinn living room. Granda Joe is watching Take That on TV.]

Granda Joe: God almighty, I don't know what the world's coming to. Bloody perverts.

Mary: (holding the baby) You're overreacting, Da.

Granda Joe: Overreacting? That lad's got no trousers on, for Christ sake.

Sarah: (drying her tan) He has a great set of pins on him, doesn't he?

(James, Erin, Michelle and Clare sit on the sofa watching the TV and dancing.)

Mary: For God's sake. Will you close that window? We're foundered here.

Sarah: I need air, Mary. I've five layers on me.

Mary: Five layers? What are you trying to do? Change race?

Sarah: Give us a going over with the hairdryer, will you?

Mary: Indeed, I will not. I've enough to be at.

Granda Joe: Why do they keep touching themselves?

Erin: Because they're artists, Granda.

Granda Joe: Dirty English bastards is what they are. (to James) No offence son.

(Granda Joe turns the channel to the news. The kids look annoyed.)

News reporter: SDLP leader John Hume has again called for cross party peace talks.

Sarah: John's really dying for peace, like, isn't he? It's all he ever goes on about. I hope it works out for him.

Mary: Aye, I sort of hope it works out for all of us, Sarah.

(Gerry walks in.)

Gerry: Come on, girls. It's time to hit the road here. (to James) Have they roped you into going as well, son?

Michelle: Roped him? Hardly. He's riding Gary Barlow.

James: I am not! I just respect him as a songwriter, that's all.

Michelle: Aye, dead on, James. So you do.

Mary: Will we need our passports, Gerry?

Gerry: For Belfast? I don't think so, love.

Granda Joe: Belfast?

Erin: Are we not a bit early, Daddy?

Gerry: It's a two hour drive with traffic, love.

Granda Joe: (getting up in fury) This thing's in Belfast?

Erin: But it's eight hours til the doors open.

Gerry: I know, we're cutting it fine.

Granda Joe: Belfast! Sure why don't you just sell the wains into white slavery and be done with it?

Mary: Gerry will be with them, Da.

Granda Joe: Well that's worse! Sure, they hate his kind there!

Gerry: My kind?

Granda Joe: Pricks.

(Gerry looks offended.)

Mary: That is enough. They're going to the concert, Da. And that's the end of the matter.

News reporter: And finally, panic at Belfast Zoo today, when a polar bear escaped from its enclosure. The RUC have launched a widespread search and have warned residents in the local area to be extra vigilant.

Granda Joe: Now will you see sense?

Erin: Aye, Granda, 'cause an escaped polar bear's going to track us down and kill us. As if Mammy's bothered by that.

(Mary is speechless.)

[Time lapse.]

Erin: Wise up, Mammy! As if a polar bear's going to rock up at a Take That concert!

Orla: He wouldn't get a ticket, for a start. They sold out months ago.

Mary: You'd be surprised, girls.

Granda Joe: Aye, thon boys would get in where draughts wouldn't.

Gerry: Sure, the concert's nowhere near the zoo.

Granda Joe: But he's not in the zoo anymore, is he, simple Simon? He's sauntering about Belfast without a care in the world.

Sarah: Aye, keep up, Gerry.

Gerry: What I'm saying is that it would be quite a lot of ground for him to cover.

Mary: They're quick on their feet when they want to be, love.

Orla: Or someone might give him a lift.

Erin: Whose side are you on, Orla?

Michelle: Come on, Mary. If you won't let Erin go, our Mas won't let us go.

Mary: Well, neither they should! And I'll be ringing them to say as much.

(Michelle looks annoyed.)

Clare: (frantic) Oh, brilliant!

James: I hate my life.

Mary: Look girls, I know how much you were looking forward to seeing This and That.

Erin: Take That!

Mary: But there'll be other concerts.

Erin: No there won't! The fact that this one's happening is a miracle. Nobody good ever comes here 'cause we keep killing each other!

Sarah: And now we're overrun with polar bears.

Granda Joe: Where will it end?

Erin: Seriously?!

[In Erin's bedroom. The kids enter.]

Michelle: Well I'm not letting that fat, furry fuck ruin the biggest day of my life!

Erin: (sitting on her bed) What can we do?

(James, Clare and Orla sit on the bed beside Erin.)

Michelle: Right, listen, girls. I've never told anyone this before but sometimes when Robbie's being interviewed, it's like he's sending me messages through the TV, you know, like telepathically or whatever. It's like he's saying we're meant to be together.

Erin: Aye, maybe don't tell that to anyone again, Michelle. Ever.

Michelle: Look, this is too important. I'm going to that concert. I'm not afraid of a fucking polar bear!

Erin: Me either.

James: Nor me.

Michelle: Bastard!

Orla: (sucking a lollipop) I'll kill it with my own two hands if I have to!

Erin: Bring it on!

Michelle: Yes!

Clare: Okay, we seem to have gone down a weird road here, people. I think we just got a bit confused. We don't actually have to fight a polar bear, and, if we did, I wouldn't really fancy our chances because, well, they're massive!

Orla: But there's five of us, so…

Clare: The point is, the polar bear's not the one stopping us going to the concert. It's our mothers, and we'll never get them to change their minds.

Michelle: We're not going to try to change their minds. We're going to do something else.

James: What?

Michelle: (smiling) Lie our holes off.

[On the bus to Belfast. Erin, Michelle, James, Orla and Clare sit in the back seats.]

Clare: (wearing a full black outfit and black hat) We're going to get caught. I just know it.

Michelle: We're not going to get caught, Clare. Because, as far as our Mas are concerned, me, you and James are round Erin's, and Erin and Orla are round mine.

Orla: But we're not round yours, Michelle. We're on the bus to Belfast.

Michelle: I can't, I cannot explain it to her again. I'm going to scream.

James: What's in the suitcase, Michelle?

(A red suitcase sits on the seat in front of Michelle.)

Michelle: Vodka.

Erin: You've brought an entire suitcase full of vodka?

Michelle: No. There's mixers as well. I'm not a savage. You can mix vodka with cider, right?

Clare: God, I am boiling!

Erin: Is it any wonder, Clare? What are you wearing?

Michelle: Yeah, you look like a fucking provo.

Clare: I don't want anyone recognising me, okay?

Michelle: No one's going to recognise you, Clare.

(Sister Michael gets on the bus.)

Sister Michael: Clare Devlin, is that you?

Clare: (panicking) Jesus Christ.

Erin: Relax, Clare. It's the weekend. She has no authority over us at the weekend. She has no right to question us, and if she tries to, I'll tell her as much.

Sister Michael: Morning, girls.

All: Morning, Sister Michael.

Sister Michael: What takes you to Belfast?

(Clare looks to Erin.)

Erin: I'm not really sure that's…

Sister Michael: Speak up.

Erin: I'm not really sure that that's any of your business.

Sister Michael: I'm going to assume that was an ill-judged attempt at humour, Miss Quinn.

Erin: Yes.

Sister Michael: Now answer the question.

Erin: We're going to the museum.

Sister Michael: Which museum?

Clare: The Ulster Museum.

Sister Michael: What for?

James: A project. A history project.

(Orla looks confused.)

Sister Michael: What about?

Michelle: Ulster?

Sister Michael: (suspicious) Hmm…

(Sister Michael walks away and takes a seat. The kids sigh with relief. Sister Michael turns to look at them suspiciously.)

[Time lapse.]

Clare: (pulling her hair out of her jumper) A history project! This web of lies we're spinning is getting out of control now, girls!

(Clare whips off her hat and straightens her hair.)

Michelle: It's grand, Clare. I think she bought it.

Clare: Of course she didn't buy it! She's onto us. I'm telling you. My God, I'm sweltered here.

Erin: Then take it off!

Clare: I can't take it off. I've nothing underneath it.

Erin: What, not even a bra?

Michelle: Jesus, Clare! You've no bra on?

Clare: (shouting) Of course I've got a bra on!

Orla: I haven't got a bra on.

James: Can everyone please stop saying 'bra'.

Clare: But I can hardly parade around in just my bra, can I? I'm not Madonna.

Michelle: Isn't that the truth.

Clare: What's she doing now?

James: Reading her book.

(Sister Michael reads The Exorcist and laughs.)

James: Now she's looking at the woman beside her.

(Sister Michael looks at the old woman beside her who's eating a sandwich.)

James: Now she's getting up.

(Clare looks panicked.)

James: Now she's coming this way.

(Sister Michael walks towards the kids.)

James: Now she's standing right in front of us.

Sister Michael: What's he doing?

James: Now she's asking…

Erin: Stop talking, James.

Sister Michael: (pointing at the seat with the suitcase on it) I want to sit here.

Michelle: What? What, why?

Sister Michael: Well, you're just such wonderful company, girls, what with your stimulating conversation and your razor sharp wit.

Erin: Really?

Sister Michael: No, not really. The woman next to me is eating an egg and onion sandwich and the smell of it is enough to turn an orange march. (she picks up the suitcase) Christ, but this is heavy.

Michelle: Sister, no. Let me.

Sister Michael: What do you have in here, girls?

Clare: It's not ours!

Sister Michael: Not yours?

Clare: We have never seen it before in our lives. Have we, girls?

Erin: Nope.

Michelle: Never.

James: No.

Sister Michael: (turning to the front of the bus) Excuse me, everyone! Can I have your attention, please? Does anyone own this red suitcase?

(Orla raises her hand.)

All: No.

(The kids look worried.)

Sister Michael: Now, let me be clear. No one can claim this bag? Is that correct?

All: That's correct.

Sister Michael: I think we have a code red on our hands! Driver, pull over!

(The kids panic as Sister Michael walks away.)

[Outside the bus. The suitcase is on the road. The army bomb diffusers have arrived and are approaching the suitcase.]

Soldier on radio: in position. Examining suspect device now.

(Erin, James, Michelle and Clare look anxious. Orla looks excited.)

Clare: Sweet Jesus!

Erin: Aye, this isn't great.

Michelle: Ach, it's not that big a deal.

Erin: They're going to blow up an entire suitcase of vodka, Michelle!

Michelle: I know. Animals.

Orla: Their wee beekeeper costumes are so cracker!

Erin: You're unbelievable!

Clare: (fiddling with her jumper) This is so itchy now!

Michelle: Don't blame me. Blame the milk tray man.

Erin: This is really serious, Michelle. People have gone to jail for less.

James: Why is this place so mental?

Michelle: That's enough, James! You have serious fucking anger management issues, do you know that?

(There is a loud bang as the suitcase is exploded.)

Soldier: 33 Bravo this is 31 Alpha, over.

Soldier on radio: I hear you. Over.

Soldier on radio: All clear here. Over.

Soldier: Roger. Let's pack it up. Over.

(Michelle smiles with relief.)

Soldier on radio: Powerful smell of vodka down here. Over.

(The kids look worried.)

Sister Michael: Vodka, did he say? (turning to the kids) Interesting.

Michelle: Okay, we need to go.

(The kids run away and the crowd watch them in confusion.)

[On a country road. The kids walk.]

(Orla is holding a stick in the air.)

Erin: We need a better plan, Michelle.

Michelle: This is a great plan.

Erin: We cannot walk to Belfast.

Michelle: How far could it be? Have you ever seen Northern Ireland on a map? It's fucking tiny.

Clare: I have to say, I'm not overly keen on us being out in the open like this, just because of the whole “There's a polar bear on the loose that could maul us to death” thing!

Orla: It can try.

Michelle: Is it just me, or is that gypsy an absolute ride?

(Some gypsies stand at a stall at the side of the road.)

Erin: Michelle, you cannot say that!

Michelle: What?

Erin: They're called travellers now. You can't say gypsy anymore. It's insulting.

Michelle: Is it?

Clare: Yes. Yes, it is.

Michelle: Really?

James: Who are they?

Erin: They're just people, James. They're just people exactly like us.

Orla: Except different.

Erin: Yes. No!

Clare: That's actually racist, Orla.

Michelle: No, it's not. They are different.

Erin: They're not.

Michelle: Well, they live in caravans for a start.

Orla: Aw, I wish I lived in a caravan!

Michelle: Aye, me too. Caravans are class!

Erin: Could everybody stop being so racist, please?

James: I'm a bit scared of them. Is that racist?

Erin: Yes.

Clare: Very much so.

Michelle: Is gypsy even a race?

Erin: Traveller.

Gypsy: Well, how are you girls?

Michelle: Well, hello there.

Erin: Hi.

Clare: Good afternoon, Sir.

Michelle: “Sir”? What the fuck, Clare?

Gypsy: Hey, hold on!

Clare: (frantic) What does he want?

(The kids start walking faster.)

Erin: I dunno.

Gypsy: I'm talking to you!

Erin: Just walk on.

Gypsy: Hey! Are you deaf or what?

(The kids walk even faster and the group of gypsies follow them.)

Erin: Keep your heads down and keep walking.

Gypsy: Get back here!

Erin: Faster. Walk faster.

Gypsy: Am I going to have to come after ya, am I?

James: Jesus Christ, he's following us.

Michelle: Holy fuck!

Erin: Run!

(The gypsies chase the kids down the road.)

Erin: He's obviously a psychopath! Run!

Michelle: He looks fucking raging!

Clare: I don't want to die! I don't want to die!

(Clare screams frantically. Orla laughs.)

Orla: This is some craic, isn't it?

(The gypsies have caught up with the kids.)

James: Holy shit, they're fast!

(They stop running. Erin grabs Orla's stick and holds it up to the main gypsy.)

Erin: Back off!

Gypsy: What?

Erin: Back off, you heard me! I'm not messing around with this thing!

Clare: (holding up her hands) We mean you no harm, Sir!

Michelle: Seriously, Clare. The “sir” thing, just pack it in.

Gypsy: Why are you being so weird?

Clare: Why are you chasing us?

Gypsy: (holding out a purse to Clare) Because you dropped this.

Clare: My purse.

Gypsy: Why did you think we were chasing you?

(They are speechless.)

Gypsy: Ah right, I see. We're travellers, which means we're psychopaths?

Orla: Aw, you were right, Erin!

Erin: Shut up, Orla.

Gyspy: We run after people and beat them up for no fecking reason.

Erin: No, look, that isn't - 

Gypsy: We're travellers, so we're obviously violent.

Erin: No, not at all. Listen, we have huge respect for you and your people. You've such a strong sense of community and such wonderful, traditional values.

(A van approaches and beeps its horn.)

Rita: These lads bothering you, girls?

Erin: Yes, yes, they are!

Michelle: They're fucking madmen!

Erin: They're going to kill us.

Clare: Help us, please!

Rita: (spits) Jump in.

(The kids run to the van. Orla waves goodbye happily.)

Gypsy: Arseholes.

[Time lapse. On the road to Belfast in the van.]

(Clare looks at some CDs. Michelle hugs a Robbie cardboard cutout.)

Michelle: We totally suit.

Erin: Have you ever actually met them, Rita? Take That?

Rita: Nah, I can't stand them, if I'm being honest, but the fans are so thick they'll buy any old shite. Present company incuded.

Erin: I think you mean excluded.

Rita: Naw. Naw, I don't.

Erin: I see.

Rita: Pop music isn't really my thing, truth be told. It's all so fucking soulless. Nah. I'm a classical head, all the way, but I've been banned from trading at Glyndebourne ever since I absolutely battered that Pavarotti fan, and when I say battered I mean intellectually, like. I did kick the shit out of him as well.

(Erin looks terrified. Orla looks shocked.)

Rita: Pavo's La Boheme is very muscular, but for purity of tone you simply cannot fault Bocelli!! I mean, listen to that, girls.

(Rita turns on classical music.)

Rita: Pass us a can, there.

Erin: A can of…?

(Orla passes Rita a can of beer.)

Erin: (looking worried) Oh, beer. I see.

(Rita cracks open the can and drinks while driving.)

Erin: Alcoholic beer.

Rita: Ah, that's fucking beautiful.

Erin: While driving. Okay. Fine. Good.

Rita: (taking another mouthful) Mmm! I mean, what a fucking instrument! Glorious!

(Clare looks awkwardly at a t-shirt with a spelling mistake.)

Erin: Any idea what the speed limit is around here?

Clare: “Robie”?!

Rita: Close your eyes, girls, and soak it up!

Erin: Sure. Of course. But maybe you could soak it up with your eyes open and, you know, on the road?!

(Andrea Bocelli continues playing as they drive down the road. Rita continues drinking, closing her eyes and crying. Erin looks terrified.)

(Clare pulls out more t-shirts, all with the spelling mistake 'Robie'.)

Clare: Erin, what are we going to do?

Erin: I don't know! She's fucking mental!

Clare: She spelt Robbie wrong on every single t-shirt!

Erin: What?

Clare: How are we going to break it to her?

(Rita drinks more beer.)

Erin: That's what you're worried about, Clare? At this very second, that's what's concerning you, a spelling mistake?!

Clare: I find it disturbing, Erin.

Rita: I tell you what, girls, I don't believe in God but, see, if I did…

Michelle: Um, she's lost the plot.

Rita: (crying) That's what he would sound like!

Michelle: We should have took our chances with the gypsies.

Erin and Clare: Travellers!

(Thudding and braking. Rita spills beer on herself. Erin looks terrified.)

Michelle: Jesus Christ!

(Orla fixes her hair.)

Erin: What was that?

Clare: Did we hit something?!

(Orla looks out the window, shocked and excited.)

Orla: Oh my God! It's the polar bear!

[Time lapse. They stare down at the carcass. It's a sheep.]

Rita: Not again. Get it shifted, girls.

[Time lapse. Rita is back in the van, drinking beer and watching the girls happily.]

(The girls move the dead sheep.)

Michelle: This is rank!

Clare: Why are we doing it?

Erin: Because Rita told us to, and I'm scared of her, Clare! I'm very, very scared of her! Why's it so heavy? Aren't they meant to be 90% wool?!

Michelle: Just put your back into it! The sooner this is done, the sooner we're back in the van and on our way to see Robbie.

Clare: “Robie”! I mean, it so obviously doesn't look right!

Erin: I am not getting back in that van, Michelle! The woman is a maniac!

Michelle: We've come this far now, we're not turning back! Oh, Jesus Christ!

Erin: What is it?

Michelle: Oh, I just put my hand on its hole!

(They all freak out.)

Michelle: Fuck this, let's just make James do it, the lazy bastard.

Clare: Totally. Good idea.

(They drop the sheep.)

Clare: (looking around) Where is James?

(Erin looks at her with worry.)

[In the van.]

(The girls all shout at the same time in panic. Rita smokes.)

Rita: Will you shut the fuck up?!

(They all stop shouting.)

Rita: Okay. So, as far as I can make out, you think you left this James character with the gypsies?

Erin: Travellers.

Rita: The small, annoying one thinks we should go back for him, because…?

Clare: (panicking) They were so angry with us. He could be in real danger, Rita!

Rita: And the mouthy, curly one thinks we shouldn't, because…?

Michelle: Because he's a dickhead, Rita.

Rita: See, it's tricky.

Clare: Oh, come on, Michelle!

Michelle: If we go back for him we're going to miss the start of the concert.

Erin: But he's your cousin.

Michelle: Who hasn't lost a cousin or two in their time?

Rita: Okay, okay. So, who agrees with Tiny Tears, who thinks we should go back?

(Erin and Clare raise their hands. Orla scratches her chin thoughtfully.)

Clare: Orla!

Orla: I like James, I like Take That more.

Rita: Make a fucking decision, I've t-shirts to flog!

Michelle: Come on, girls. It's Take That we're talking about!

Erin: I know, it's just…

Michelle: You said it yourself, Erin, the greats don't come here. We never got to see Bros, New Kids on the Block, Right Said Fred.

(Rita rolls her eyes.)

Michelle: Let's not add Take That to the list. We can't turn back. There's too much at stake.

Erin: James has the tickets!

Michelle: Shit!

[In the Quinn living room. Gerry stands watching TV. Sarah watches TV from the kitchen hatch. Mary reads the newspaper at the kitchen table.]

News reporter: Despite John Humes' optimism earlier today, the DUP leader, Ian Paisley has said that under no circumstances will his party sit at the same table as Sinn Fein, making all party talks impossible.

(Mary looks up, sighing with disappointment.)

Mary: I can't take it anymore. All these false promises. Waiting week after week, hoping today might be the day, only to be disappointed.

Gerry: Don't upset yourself, love. It's just a wheelie bin.

Mary: It'll change my life, Gerry. And Strabane's had them for months. I mean, what's going on there? Who's pulling the strings for Strabane?

Sarah: (thinking about her tan) I mean, it's against the Trades Description Act. The label said mahogany. Sure, that's barely oak. Jesus, but I'm fuming, so I am.

(Granda Joe walks in.)

Granda Joe: He's gaining ground.

Mary: What?

Granda Joe: The polar bear. Margo Murphy's niece just saw him outside the Abrakebabra in Coleraine, apparently.

Sarah: That close?!

Mary: I'll get the holy water.

Granda Joe: Sarah, buzz Michelle's mother there, tell her we need our wains back.

Sarah: I will surely, Daddy.

Granda Joe: Then we'll barricade the front door, and if the worst comes to the worst, Jim across the road lent me his tranquiliser gun.

Sarah: (phone to ear) Nobody's picking up.

Gerry: Why does Jim across the road have a tranquiliser gun?

Sarah: His brother had an awful lot of bother with devil worshippers.

Gerry: Excuse me?

Sarah: Aye, they set up camp on his farm and he couldn't shift them for love nor money, so Jim bought a couple of guns and just…

Gerry: What? Shot them?

Sarah: Aye, I think it worked, you know?

Gerry: I imagine it would, yeah.

Mary: I'm not convinced they were devil worshippers, you know.

Sarah: Sure their hair had never seen a brush and they were head to toe in tie dye, Mary.

(Gerry turns to see Granda Joe holding a gun to his face.)

Gerry: Jesus Christ! Okay, I think we all just need to take a moment.

(Knock on the front door. Granda Joe points the gun at the door.)

Sarah: Don't answer! That might be him, that might be the polar bear!

(Granda Joe points the gun at Gerry again.)

Gerry: Yeah, because they're known for their impeccable manners. They might come into the house and rip your throat out, but they'll knock on the door first. Could you please stop pointing that thing at me, Joe?

Mary: Da…

(Joe lowers the gun. Geraldine walks in.)

Mary: Ach, Geraldine.

Geraldine: I hope you don't mind. Your front door was open. Can you believe this bloody polar bear? We're at our wits end over at our place.

Mary: It's desperate, so it is.

(Knock at door. Mary and Sarah jump in panic. Joe raises the gun. Deidre walks in.)

Deidre: Hello Mary, Gerry?

Mary: Mon in, Deidre love, it's open.

Deidre: Can you credit this arsehole? He's going to hold this whole town hostage, you mark my words.

Sarah: He's an evil bastard, Deidre.

Deidre: Look, I just want to get my two back home if that's all right, Mary.

Geraldine: Aye, same here. You wouldn't mind getting Clare for me?

Mary: What are you talking about?

Gerry: Shhh! Listen.

(They all turn to the TV.)

News reporter: A polar bear that escaped from Belfast Zoo this morning has been recaptured. A group of firefighters who were helping with the search discovered the animal close to the A6 between Belfast and Londonderry, feasting on a sheep carcass.

Sarah: Well thank God for that.

Granda Joe: Ah. I better leave Jim's gun back, so.

(Granda Joe walks out.)

Mary: Michelle, James and Clare, did they tell you they were coming round here?

Deidre: Aye.

Geraldine: That's right.

Mary: (shaking her head) The wee feckers.

[At the gypsies' stall. The van pulls up. James is happily helping the gypsies.]

(Rita beeps the horn. Orla looks out the window at James while sucking a lollipop. Michelle opens the sliding door.)

Michelle: What are you playing at? Get in the van, fucko!

Gypsy: Does not have to if you don't want to, James.

Michelle: With all due respect, this has got nothing to do with you.

Gypsy: The way you treat this fella is disgraceful.

Michelle: What is going on, James?

James: Jonjo and the lads, well, they just get me, and it turns out, I'm a really good salesman.

Gypsy: He's a natural.

Michelle: So what? You're a gypsy now?

Erin: Traveller!

Gypsy: Actually, gypsy's fine.

Michelle: I knew it.

Rita: Let's get a move on!

Michelle: Right, get in the van. Come on. And do not test me, 'cause we've already missed PJ and Duncan.

Clare: Is that who was supporting them?

Michelle: Aye.

Clare: Oh, I really like them!

James: I'm not leaving, Michelle.

Michelle: Not even for Gary Barlow?

Gypsy: I don't really rate him as a songwriter, you know?

(James looks offended.)

James: I'm sorry, Jonjo, but you've just crossed the line there.

(James gets in the van with the others. Jonjo the gypsy looks devastated.)

[In the Quinn kitchen. All the mothers sit at the table, drinking tea.]

Deidre: My Michelle's going to be wishing she was mauled to death by that thing when I get my hands on her.

Geraldine: I don't know what to do anymore. I mean, they say that all teenagers are a bit rebellious, but Clare's off the scale. She's basically a delinquent.

Sarah: (drinking her tea with a spoon) Have you considered adoption, Geraldine?

Geraldine: She's sixteen, Sarah. Sure, she's past the cut-off.

(Gerry is watching TV by himself in the living room.)

News reporter: And finally, amazing scenes in the King's Hall this evening, as the British pop sensations, Take That play their first ever Northern Irish concert.

(Footage of Robbie onstage.)

Mary: Look, girls, we just need some cold, hard proof they went to that concert. And then, by Christ, they won't know what's hit them.

(The kids appear on the TV, in the front row dancing and screaming with excitement.)

(Gerry looks taken aback, and continues watching.)

(Close up of Erin dancing on the TV.)

(Gerry smiles and chuckles. He continues watching his daughter in silence.)

(The kids look happy as they continue dancing at the concert.)




EPISODE 4

[In church. The Bridal Chorus plays.]

(The congregation turns to see Sarah walking down the aisle in white. The bride and her father walk behind her. The bride looks annoyed. Sarah squeezes in beside Mary.)

Sarah: Jesus, but that taxi took forever, so it did.

(Mary, Gerry and Erin look at Sarah in disgust.)

(The bride walks past Sarah, giving her a dirty look.)

Sarah: Oh, isn't she gorgeous?

Mary: Give me strength.

[At the reception. The bridesmaids console the bride.]

Mary: Everyone is looking at us.

Sarah: (drinking champagne) Do you think it's your hat?

Mary: What?

Sarah: It is a bit much, Mary. I did try to tell you.

Mary: My hat's a bit much? Really?

Woman: (to Sarah) You should be ashamed of yourself.

Granda Joe: (to Gerry) What in under Christ have you done now?

Gerry: I don't think she was talking to me, Joe. I think she was talking to the person in the full-length, white frock who just managed to upstage the actual bride.

Sarah: Och, I wouldn't say I upstaged her now, Gerry.

Mary: It's so mortifying.

Sarah: Well, take it off then, Mary.

Mary: What?

Sarah: The hat.

(Uncle Colm walks in.)

Granda Joe: Ah, shite.

Uncle Colm: There you are.

Granda Joe: He's spied us. Run, girls. Save yourselves.

Uncle Colm: John over there was just saying… You know John? Lovely fella. Married to, er, Patricia, I think it is, and her mother worked in the credit union, you might remember. Absolutely crippled with the old gallstones, so she was.

Mary: Christ Almighty.

Uncle Colm: And the gallstones… Well, now, they're no joke. A neighbour of mine, Dickie Dunnagan, by God, he was tortured with the gallstones. The size of gallstones, they were.

Mary: Um, and what did John say, Colm? For the love of God, what did he say?

Uncle Colm: He was telling me there, John was, that every being in the place is talking about Sarah's frock.

Sarah: (happily) Och, really?

Mary: Jesus, but this is an ordeal.

Uncle Colm: Well, at least they got a good day for it, Mary. I'll tell you, I was at one there, up in the Cathedral last week. By God, the wind could have cut you in two. Fierce it was, and now, I don't mind a bit of a breeze. If anything, I prefer it, but thon was aggressive. And I says to myself, says I, “Colm, this is no day for a do.” And, as it turns out…

Mary: Can I just stop you there, Colm?

Uncle Colm: Surely, Mary. Go ahead.

Mary: Oh, no. I've nothing to say. I just really, really need you to stop talking.

Uncle Colm: Fair enough.

(Mary nods.)

Granda Joe: Herself's over there. Circling the drinks table.

(Gerry and Joe watch Aunt Bridie drink champagne.)

Granda Joe: Bitter old bat.

Mary: Da…

Granda Joe: It's one glass per head. She has already necked the guts of four bottles.

Mary: Da!

Granda Joe: Though it'll hardly touch the sides. Tolerance of a rhino.

Mary: Stop it, okay? Bridie's still our aunt. Still Mammy's sister. And if Mammy was alive…

Granda Joe: Your mother couldn't stick her.

Mary: Shh! She's coming over. (she smiles) Auntie Bridie, great to see you!

Aunt Bridie: (to Sarah) Well, you should be proud of yourself.

Sarah: (sincerely) Och, thanks very much.

Granda Joe: All right, Bridie? Are you well?

Aunt Bridie: Nope. Naw, I'm not actually. Not that you give a shit.

Eamonn: Mammy hasn't been keeping the best lately, Joe. I was a bit worried about her for a while.

Granda Joe: I wouldn't upset yourself too much, son. Sure, a bullet couldn't take your mother out. Isn't that right, Bridie?

Aunt Bridie: Still a prick, I see, Joe. Christ knows what our Marie ever saw in you, God rest her soul. Yous must still miss her terribly, girls.

(Sarah nods.)

Mary: We do indeed.

Aunt Bridie: Isn't it a crying shame neither of you got her looks?

Mary: Okay. So, Eamonn! Any craic with you? Are you seeing anyone? Should I maybe buy myself another hat?

Sarah: You should definitely buy yourself another hat, Mary. That thing does nothing for you.

Eamonn: I'm not seeing anyone.

Mary: Plenty of time, I suppose.

Aunt Bridie: Eamonn'll never marry.

Gerry: Is that a feeling, Bridie, or an instruction?

(Bridie stares angrily at Gerry. Gerry looks regretful.)

Sarah: Och, it's a great wee day so far, isn't it?

Mary: Beam me up.

[Time lapse. On the dancefloor. Uncle Colm talks to a random man. Erin and Orla are drinking from bottles.]

Erin: Thank God!

(Erin and Orla walk across the room to Clare, Michelle and James.)

Michelle: (excitedly) Motherfuckers!

Clare: How's it been?

Erin: Boring.

Orla: Brilliant!

Mary: Erin! Orla!

Erin: Oh, for Christ's sake.

Mary: I said you could invite one friend to the reception! One!

Erin: Och, Mummy, they don't come separately.

Michelle: Aye, we're pack animals, Mary.

James: I love your hat, Mrs. Quinn!

Mary: (looking flattered) Thanks, son.

Michelle: Dickhead.

Mary: Well, no oul carry on, do you hear me? We're in enough bother as it is. (to Erin) Best behaviour. (she walks away)

Clare: Completely!

Michelle: You'll have no trouble from us, Mary! Okay girls, who wants to do drugs?

Orla: (smiling) Me.

Clare: I'm sorry?

Michelle: Nothing heavy, just a bit of blow.

Erin: And where are you planning on getting a bit of blow from, Michelle?

(The priest walks past. The girls look awkward.)

Michelle: Right, well, you know Macca?

Erin: I can't say I do.

Michelle: Aye, Macca. Big Macca. Come on, everybody knows Macca!

Clare: We don't.

Michelle: Wise up! Macca? Macca! Macca. Macca!

Clare: That's not helping, Michelle!

Michelle: Macca. Tall fella, dark hair, wonky nose from when he used to do the bare-knuckle boxing. Och, he's loads of tattoos, big scar under his left eye. He was kicked out of Creggan for joyriding.

Clare: (sarcastically) Well, he sounds delightful!

Orla: (sincerely) He really does.

Michelle: He said he could hook us up. Class or what?

Erin: I'm not sure.

Clare: Well, I am. It's not happening. Drugs are for mugs, folks!

Michelle: Congratulations, Clare. That might be the dickiest sentence that anyone's ever said.

James: Come on, Michelle, what makes you think you can trust this Macca person?

Michelle: Well, he's not English for a start, so…

Erin: James has a point.

Michelle: No, he doesn't!

Erin: What if he gives us dodgy gear?

Michelle: Dodgy gear? What is this, The Bill?!

Clare: I cannot believe you're even discussing it!

Michelle: Let's live a little, for fuck's sake!

Clare: I want no part of this, and if you guys decide to go through with it, then I'm sorry, but any friendship we have is over!

(Rock the Boat starts playing. The kids look excited.)

Clare: (screaming excitedly) Rock the Boat! It's Rock the Boat!

Michelle: Happy fucking days! Quick!

(They all run into the crowd.)

Orla: Bagsy the front! Bagsy the front!

(They push their way through. Erin shoves Eamonn as he tries to get into the line on the floor.)

(Most of the guests do the Rock the Boat dance on the floor. James looks stressed and confused.)

Michelle: You're just a wrecking ball, Clare.

Clare: Look, Michelle, drugs are illegal, drugs are addictive, but perhaps most importantly, in this country you can lose your kneecaps if you're caught doing them, and I like my kneecaps, Michelle. They suit my knees!

Orla: You do have cracking kneecaps, Clare!

James: Is that true?

Erin: Sort of.

(Mary, Gerry, Sarah and Joe dance at their table.)

(Uncle Colm continues talking to the same random man. The man looks bored.)

Mary: Oh, God.

Gerry: What is it?

Mary: He's got someone. Should we save the poor fella?

Granda Joe: No chance.

Sarah: Och, Daddy, he's only young.

Granda Joe: I don't care! When it comes to our Colm, it's every man for himself.

(The kids are still rocking the boat. James looks comfortable.)

(Bridie and Eamonn approach Mary, Gerry, Sarah and Joe.)

Aunt Bridie: I would like a word.

Eamonn: It's fine, Mammy.

Aunt Bridie: Indeed, it is not fine.

Mary: Something troubling you, Bridie?

Aunt Bridie: Aye, you could say that. My Eamonn has been waiting all night for this song.

Mary: For Rock the Boat? Really?

Aunt Bridie: But your girls pushed him out of the line, and now he has a bruise. Show them the bruise, Eamonn.

Eamonn: I bruise quite easily. (he pulls up his trousers to reveal his leg)

Aunt Bridie: That's not the point!

Mary: Right. I see. Well, I'm sorry about that, Eamonn.

Aunt Bridie: Is that all you have to say?

Mary: I'm not sure what else there is to say, Bridie, except maybe, our girls are sixteen and Eamonn's a fifty year old man.

Sarah: Look, it's a rough routine, Bridie. You know that going in. You sit down on that floor at your own risk.

Aunt Bridie: You are seriously not going to pull them up about this?

Mary: No, Bridie. We're not. It's Rock the Boat.

Aunt Bridie: Well, that certainly explains a few things.

Mary: What's that supposed to mean?

Aunt Bridie: It means that a bit of discipline would do those girls no harm. They have been running about all day like a couple of wild animals.

Mary: Okay, that'll do, Bridie.

Aunt Bridie: But then, the apple never did fall far from the tree.

Eamonn: Mammy, please.

Aunt Bridie: Yous girls never did know how to conduct yourselves. Nothing but a pair of hallions.

Gerry: Come on now, Bridie, that's enough of that.

Granda Joe: What, do they need you to defend them? You big pair of knickers.

Aunt Bridie: It wasn't my poor sister's fault. She tried her best with both of you, but you're your father's daughters, all right.

Mary: I'd rein it in now, if I were you.

Aunt Bridie: I really think you were a disappointment to her, you know?

(Eamonn looks shocked.)

Granda Joe: (standing up) Now, hold on a God damn minute!

Mary: (standing up) Daddy, you will not dignify that with a response.

Aunt Bridie: And I'll tell you something else. If your mother saw thon hat, she'd be turning in her grave, for its nothing but a bloody eyesore.

Mary: Och, drop dead, you spiteful oul hag!

(Bridie literally drops dead.)

Mary: Catch yourself on…

(They all look shocked. All the guests crowd around the body.)

[In the Quinn kitchen. Mary sits in shock.]

Mary: I just cannot believe it.

Sarah: Listen, Mary, no matter what you've done, you're still my sister. I'll stand by you.

Mary: I haven't done anything, Sarah.

Granda Joe: Exactly, love. Everybody knows you didn't mean to kill the oul boot. God rest her soul.

Mary: I didn't kill her!

Granda Joe: Och, you know what I mean, not kill… hex.

Mary: I didn't hex her either, Da! It was just a very tragic…

Granda Joe: My mother, she had the gift too, you know. By God, that woman could make her enemies drop like flies.

Mary: Well look, I don't have any gift. There's no dark forces at play here. I just said something unfortunate that happened to…

Sarah: Cause her death?

Mary: Coincide with her death!

(Erin and Orla stand by the sink.)

Erin: Right, well, that's the dishes done. Would you like another cup of tea there, Mammy?

Mary: No, I'm fine.

Erin: I'll just grab the Hoover and give the stairs a bit of a going over.

Orla: (eating a lolly) And I'll maybe do a bit of dusting.

Mary: What's gotten into you two? What are you up to? What do you want?

Erin: Nothing. We just thought that we should pull our weight a bit more, Mammy.

Orla: You do so much for us, Aunt Mary.

Erin: And you deserve a bit of a break.

Mary: I can't hex people, girls. It was an accident!

(Gerry walks in.)

Gerry: So how's the wicked witch of the North West?

Granda Joe: Who put 50p in the eejit?

Mary: God, how am I going to go to this wake?

Granda Joe: It'll be grand, love. But listen, see if things do get heated? Try not to rise to it. The last thing we want is another dead body on our hands, here.

Mary: I'll do my best, Da.

[At the wake, in Eamonn's house. Sarah, Mary, Joe, Gerry and Colm walk in. Sarah is wearing a fancy black dress.]

Eamonn: So good of you to come.

Mary: (shaking Eamonn's hand) God, this is a big turnout.

Eamonn: Well, Mammy was just so well liked.

Mary: Right. Really?

Eamonn: I suppose because she was the life and soul, wasn't she? Full of the joys, always laughing.

Granda Joe: We're talking about Bridie here, aren't we?

Mary: Yes, Da.

Eamonn: Look, Mary, there's something I need to say.

Sarah: Is this about the curse, Eamonn?

Eamonn: Sorry?

Sarah: Because Mary's saying she didn't do it and that's good enough for us.

Mary: That's the truth, Eamonn! I wouldn't know where to start with all that carry-on!

Eamonn: No, Mary, no, I was just going to say that my poor mother, God bless her and keep her…

Granda Joe: Amen.

Eamonn: Well she didn't mean what she said at the wedding.

Mary: Oh please, you don't need to explain.

Eamonn: You were worried I'd think you'd put a curse on her?

(Sarah laughs.)

Mary: Well…

(Eamonn laughs awkwardly.)

Eamonn: That's hilarious.

Mary: Aye.

Eamonn: I mean, obviously, a curse was my first thought. But I looked into it and Mammy's death, it doesn't meet the official requirements. (nodding) So you're completely in the clear on that front, Mary. Nothing to worry about at all.

Mary: (wincing awkwardly) Great.

[In Eamonn's kitchen. Two ladies are cooking.]

Gerry: We've brought some bits. Should we just leave them here?

(The ladies ignore him.)

Sister Michael: Genius.

Gerry: Sister! How are you?

Sister Michael: Well, I'm at a wake, Mr. Quinn, so I've had better evenings.

Gerry: Did you know Bridie, then?

Sister Michael: No. But I believe your wife put some sort of curse on her.

Gerry: Well, no. Not exactly.

Sister Michael: You're not a tongue person, are you?

Gerry: I'm sorry?

Sister Michael: I'm on communion duty. Christ, but I cannot stand the tongue people! I mean, what's all that about? You can't lift a wafer into your own mouth? You need me to do it for you?

Gerry: Right, yeah, that… That must be tough.

Sister Michael: Father Thomas usually deals with the wakes, but he's very sick at the minute. Bedridden, in fact.

Gerry: God! What caused it?

Sister Michael: Jack Daniels, mostly.

Gerry: I see.

Old woman: I'll take them.

(She takes the food off Gerry.)

Gerry: Lovely stuff.

Old woman: I need six rounds of cheese and ham, four rounds of egg and cress and three rounds of tuna. Cut the cheese and ham in triangles, the egg and cress in rectangles, and the tuna… Well you can freestyle.

(Gerry looks alarmed.)

Sister Michael: I'd get buttering if I were you.

Gerry: Grand, so…

(Gerry starts making sandwiches.)

[In the room with the dead body. Erin and Orla stare down at the body.]

Orla: She really suits being dead, doesn't she?

Erin: What?

(Clare opens the door.)

Clare: (whispering) Can we come in?

(Michelle and James peer in behind Clare.)

Erin: Why are you whispering?

Clare: (whispering) I don't know.

(Clare, Michelle and James walk into the room.)

Erin: Thanks for coming, guys. It's nice to have a bit of support at this very difficult time.

Michelle: You thought she was a dick.

Erin: I never said that!

Orla: You did, Erin.

Clare: Aye, I definitely heard you say it!

James: (looking stressed) Okay, can I just check something? Everybody else can see the dead body, right?

Erin: It's just Bridie!

(Orla gazes at the dead body lovingly.)

James: It's Bridie's corpse. It's Bridie's dead corpse.

Michelle: It's her wake. What were you expecting?

Erin: Haven't you ever seen a dead body before?

James: Of course not!

Michelle: (scoffs) Christ, but the English are weird.

Orla: You can touch her if you want.

James: Why the hell would I want to touch her?!

Orla: It's nice.

(James looks disturbed.)

James: Stop it!

Clare: It's just a dead body, James. We're all going to be one someday.

James: (sarcastic) Oh, thanks for that, Clare. Yeah, that's helped.

Michelle: It really makes you think, doesn't it? Death. It just… It makes you want to do everything, and just, like, try everything.

Clare: What's going on, Michelle?

Michelle: Do yous want to see something class? (opens her bag)

(Orla stares intensely at the bag.)

Clare: What is it?

Michelle: Prepare yourself, girls.

(Michelle opens a box of scones and shows the others.)

Erin: Scones.

Michelle: That's right.

Erin: What's so class about scones?

Orla: (smiling) Scones are lovely.

Clare: Aye, I like scones.

Michelle: These aren't any old scones, girls. These are funny scones.

Orla: Aye, they do look like good craic, in fairness.

Erin: Funny scones?

Clare: (frantic) They're drug scones! She's put the drugs in the scones!

Michelle: Too fucking right, I have! I wanted to do brownies but this was the only recipe my Ma had, so…

Clare: We talked about this, Michelle. We agreed!

Michelle: No, we didn't. Anyway, drugs aren't illegal when you put them into food. Everybody knows that.

James: Is that right? I'm not sure that's right.

(Erin looks at the scones indecisively.)

(Old woman walks into the room.)

Old woman: Any cups up here?

(Michelle looks worried.)

Old woman: I'll take that.

(She takes the weed scones and walks out of the room with them.)

Michelle: What the fuck just happened?!

[In Eamonn's kitchen. Gerry is working hard.]

Old woman: Three cheese and tomato on brown bread.

Gerry: Brown, right, got it.

Old woman: Four salad on white.

Gerry: Salad, white. Hang on! Are they rectangles or triangles?!

Old woman: Two with no onion.

Old woman 2: We're low on vol-au-vents, Gerry!

Old woman 3: Here, that quiche isn't cooked, Gerry!

Gerry: Sweet suffering Jesus.

[In Eamonn's living room.]

Uncle Colm: And, now, I don't mind a bit of a breeze, if anything I prefer it, but thon was aggressive.

(Sister Michael stares painfully at Colm as he tells her his story.)

Uncle Colm: So, I says to myself, says I, “Colm, this is no day for a do…”

Sister Michael: What's happening?

Uncle Colm: … for, when the bride arrived, and, as I say, by this stage the wind was fierce…

Sister Michael: Am I dead?

Uncle Colm: I've never heard wind like it.

Sister Michael: Is this my wake?

Uncle Colm: Howling like a banshee, it was.

Sister Michael: Am I in hell?

Uncle Colm: So, the poor girl, the bride now, this is, she arrives anyway and isn't she no sooner out of the car than she's lifted up in the air like a paper doll, and blown into a flowerbed.

Sister Michael: (smiling thoughtfully) That's actually quite funny.

[Time lapse.]

(Granda Joe is eating a scone.)

(The kids sit on the stairs.)

Clare: What are we going to do? What in under God are we gonna do?!

Michelle: It's fine.

Clare: It's definitely not fine! There's drug scones down there! If people eat the drug scones then we'll have drugged those people, Michelle!

Michelle: So? Drugging people isn't a crime.

James: You've a very loose grasp of the law, Michelle.

Erin: What kind of person brings hash scones to a wake?

Michelle: Typical. I try and do a nice thing and this is the thanks I get.

Clare: It's terrible. There's old people down there. What if an old person takes one?!

Michelle: Why does everybody get so sentimental about old people?! Old people are arseholes!

Erin: We have to get them back.

Michelle: Look, I'm not disagreeing with you. I bought that stuff so I could get high, not your great uncle Colm.

Erin: Christ, can you imagine?

Orla: Hold on a minute, where did the scones go?

Erin: Okay. I'll head for the kitchen and grab whatever's still there. The rest of you look out for any ones that have gone rogue. And remember… be subtle.

(Orla pats her trousers, looking for scones.)

(They all walk down the stairs and start mingling.)

Orla: (to an old woman) I need to take your scone.

Clare: (to Sister Michael) The thing is, I just have so many questions about God, about life after death.

Sister Michael: (rolling her eyes) Go away please. (raises scone to her mouth)

Clare: And I try to silence my doubts, I really do, but lately…

Sister Michael: I don't believe it.

Old woman: (to Orla) Why?

Orla: (lifts her finger to the old woman's lips) I'm not allowed to say.

Old woman: Okay.

(Orla happily takes the scone and walks away.)

Clare: (to Sister Michael) What's wrong, Sister?

Sister Michael: (sniffing the scone) Are these cinnamon?

Clare: Do you like cinnamon?

Sister Michael: (shaking her head and putting the scone down) I can't be doing with cinnamon.

Clare: Then, that's what they are! Absolutely! 100%!

(Clare grabs Sister Michael's scone and runs away.)

[In the kitchen. Gerry is working with the three old women.]

Gerry: (furious) Where are me scallions?! How do you make a salad sandwich if you don't have scallions?! I asked for them ten minutes ago! Come on now, people! Let's get it together, please! And there's a multipack of Taytos still waiting to be bowled up! No cross contamination this time. I want cheese and onion in one bowl, salt and vinegar in another!

(Erin walks in, looking worried.)

Gerry: It is not that difficult, folks!

(Erin notices the scones on the counter. She approaches them.)

Granda Joe: Listen here, you.

Gerry: (looking concerned) Yes, Joe?

(Granda Joe walks over to Gerry and puts his hand on his shoulder.)

Granda Joe: I just want to say… (he chuckles giggily in Gerry's face) I think you're doing a fine job. (he squeezes Gerry's cheek) Keep up the good work.

(Gerry looks shocked and confused. Erin looks guilty.)

[In the room with the dead body. Sarah and Mary stand over it.]

Mary: After all was said and done, she wasn't a bad oul soul. I was actually quite fond of her, you know. And I really hope she's up there now, looking down on us both, thinking… What in under Christ?!

Sarah: Aye, me too, Mary.

Mary: No, Sarah. Look! The earrings. Look at the earrings!

Sarah: God, aye. I wouldn't have put a drop on her, now, she doesn't have enough neck. She'd have been better with a stud.

Mary: They're Mammy's. She's wearing Mammy's earrings!

Sarah: So they are! How did she get them?!

Mary: She probably swooped in like a vulture before Mammy drew her last breath. And now the oul bitch… (turns to make sure no one's at the door) … is getting buried in them! Has the woman no shame?!

Sarah: Earrings like that don't deserve to be buried alive! It's a sin!

Mary: She is doing this to spite us, you know.

Sarah: What should we do?

Mary: I don't know.

Sarah: (whispering) We could replace them with exact replicas.

Mary: Right. We don't have exact replicas is the thing, though.

Sarah: That's true enough, Mary, true enough.

[In the bathroom. The kids are crowded around the toilet, throwing scones in.]

Michelle: I can't believe we're doing this. It's fucking heartbreaking! (she smells one)

Erin: Look, Granda's had one and now he's acting really, really weird.

Michelle: You're being paranoid, Erin.

Erin: He was nice to Daddy.

Michelle: (alarmed) Jesus!

Erin: Exactly. And if my ma starts asking questions…

Michelle: Your ma won't trace it back to us.

Erin: Are you for real? She traces everything back to us! She traces things we haven't even done back to us!

Clare: Are you sure this'll work?

(Orla eats part of a scone.)

James: This is how you get rid of drugs, Clare. I've seen Goodfellas, like, twenty times.

Orla: Naw, it's not the only way. I watched this film once about this girl who was trying to hide drugs and what she did was, she shoved them right up her…

(Clare looks disgusted.)

Michelle: I'm not sticking a scone up my hole, Orla. I'll tell you that for nothing.

Clare: Okay, I'm gonna flush.

Erin: Go for it!

(Clare flushes.)

Erin: Is it working?!

James: Of course it's working.

Clare: Is the water rising?!

Erin: Jesus Christ! Why's the water rising, James?

James: I don't know! The water didn't rise in Goodfellas!

Michelle: Fuck! We've clogged it!

Orla: Who has a plunger?

Erin: I'm afraid I left the house without my plunger tonight, Orla.

Orla: Aye, me too. Nightmare, so it is.

(The water fills the toilet. The kids all shout and jump back.)

[In the room with the dead body.]

(Sarah and Mary are pulling at the earrings on Bridie's body.)

Sarah: You mind your own ear, Mary! Don't concern yourself with mine!

Mary: It won't budge.

Sarah: What are they, like, glued on or something?

Mary: Pull harder!

Sarah: I'm pulling as hard as I can!

Mary: Oh! I got it!

(Mary is holding the earring as Eamonn walks in.)

Eamonn: Mary, look, this is a bit awkward, but there's been a few complaints from the kitchen, about Gerry.

Mary: Och, Eamonn, how are you? What brings you here?

Eamonn: Uh, it's me mother's wake.

Mary: (laughing) Oh, God, so it is.

(Eamonn looks confused. Sarah looks surprised.)

Eamonn: What's going on?

Mary: We… we just came in to do a wee decade of the rosary and, sure, didn't Sarah forget her beads.

Sarah: What am I not?

Eamonn: (to Mary) What's in your hand?

Mary: Sorry?

Eamonn: What have you got in your hand?

Mary: Nothing.

Eamonn: Let me see.

(Mary shows her empty hand.)

Eamonn: Your other hand.

Mary: My other hand?

Eamonn: Yes.

(Mary opens her hand to reveal the earring.)

Mary: God! How did that get there?!

Eamonn: Jeepers! Were you stealing Mammy's earrings?!

Mary: Actually, I think you'll find they were our mother's earrings originally, so…

Eamonn: What is wrong with you?

Sarah: Oh, we were doing her a favour, Eamonn. They're not flattering.

Eamonn: For God's sake, Mary. First the curse and now this?

Mary: You said there was no curse!

Eamonn: I didn't want to make you angry, Mary! I mean, I'm about to bury my mother, a hex is the last thing I need.

Mary: Aw, for Jesus sake!

(Liquid starts dripping through the ceiling.)

Sarah: (pointing) Eugh, what is that?

[Outside the bathroom. Eamonn, Mary and Sarah walk up to the door.]

Eamonn: (opening the door) Agh!

(The bathroom is flooded. The kids turn suddenly, startled.)

Mary: Dear God…

Erin: It looks worse than it is.

Eamonn: My mother was right about you people! Wild animals would have more manners!

Orla: We didn't have a plunger, Eamonn.

Eamonn: (furious) Get out! Get out, now!

(Michelle closes the toilet and they turn slowly to leave.)

[In the Quinn kitchen, after the funeral. Erin, Orla, Gerry, Mary and Sarah sit.]

Granda Joe: (walking over with tea) Not a bad sendoff in the end, I thought.

Sarah: I'm still devastated about Mammy's earrings, Mary. We were so close.

Mary: Well, they're six foot under now, so unless we dig Bridie up again…

Sarah: Maybe that's not such a bad…

Mary: It is a bad idea, Sarah. It's a very bad idea. I just want to forget the whole thing.

(Erin looks sad.)

Sarah: How's your scoots now, Erin love?

Erin: Aye, they're clearing up, I think.

Sarah: God, it's my worst nightmare. Getting caught out in someone else's house like that.

Gerry: I still don't understand why you had to bring all of your friends in there with you.

Erin: I panicked, Daddy.

Mary: Can we please stop talking about Erin's scoots? We're about to have our tea.

Granda Joe: Oh, I meant to say, I had one of these scones at the wake, and, honest to God, I've never tasted anything like it.

(Erin looks worried. Granda Joe sets a plate of scones on the table.)

Granda Joe: So, I bagged us up a couple.

Sarah: Lovely.

(Orla enthusiastically takes a scone.)

Orla: Happy days.

(Sarah takes a scone.)

Gerry: Don't mind if I do.

(Gerry takes a scone.)

Mary: (holding out her plate) Pass us one, there, would you Erin?

(Erin looks distraught as she stares at the plate.)

EPISODE 5

[In the assembly hall at school.]

Jenny's friends: (singing) doo-bee-doo-bee-doo-bee-doo-bee-doo-bee-doo-bee-doo!

Jenny: (singing) It's Monday morning!

Jenny's friends: (singing) It's Monday morning!

Jenny: (singing) Hip-hip-hooray!

(Michelle watches on in disgust.)

Jenny's friends: (singing) Hip-hip-hooray!

Jenny and friends: (singing) Let's get going, it's a brand new day!

(Erin looks shocked.)

Jenny: (singing) It's Monday morning!

Jenny's friends: (singing) It's Monday morning!

Jenny: (singing) Come on, let's go!

Jenny's friends: (singing) Come on, let's go!

Jenny and friends: (singing) Paint on a smile, and start the show!

Jenny and friends: (singing) Dum-dum-dum-dum. Oh, Monday morning!

(Orla looks horrified and leans into a random girl beside her.)

Jenny and friends: (singing) There ain't nothing, that I-I-I can't do!

(Sister Michael looks mortified.)

Jenny's friends: (singing) Doo-bee-doo-bee-doo!

Jenny: (singing) On Monday morning!

Jenny's friends: (singing) Monday morning!

(James looks astonished.)

Jenny: (singing) Oh, Monday morning!

Jenny's friends: (singing) Monday morning!

Jenny and friends: (singing) Monday morning, I love you-ou-ouuu!! (jazz hands)

(The song ends and everyone sits in silence.)

Sister Michael: (Taking a deep breath) Lovely. And I believe you wrote the lyrics yourselves. Is that correct?

Jenny: It is indeed, Sister.

Sister Michael: Do you ever think you might have too much time on your hands, girls? Lose the jackets.

(Jenny and her friends take off their jackets as Sister Michael makes her way to centre stage.)

Sister Michael: (reading) Just a couple of things. Firstly, I'd like to introduce Mae Cheung. Can you make yourself known, please, Mae?

(Mae raises her hand as Erin and Clare turn to look at her.)

Sister Michael: Miss Cheung's family have recently moved here to Derry, so I hope you'll all make her feel very welcome. It's bound to be a bit of a culture shock, Mae. Things are done differently in this part of the world.

(Erin looks impressed. Clare looks delighted.)

Sister Michael: But I'm sure you'll feel as at home here as you did back in your beloved... Donegal.

(Clare's smile drops slightly.)

Sister Michael: Announcement from Jenny Joyce and the dance committee. The school social event of the year is fast approaching, but before you don your glad rags... and... boogie... on down... I'm sorry, I simply cannot read this.

(Sister Michael walks to the side of the stage, handing the script to Jenny.)

Jenny: (enthusiastically) But before you don your glad rags, and boogie on down, we'd like to let you in on our little secret. We're not actually going to have a school formal this year.

(Crowd gasps.)

Jenny: No, listen. We're not going to have a school formal. We're going to have...

Jenny's friends: (singing) Doo-bee-doo-bee-doo-bee-doo-bee-doo-bee-doo-bee-doo!

Jenny: A fifties prom!

Girl: What?!

Michelle: Wise up!

Jenny: I know, I know, but I do love a theme. Sure isn't that why people call me the theme queen?

Clare: Do they?

Michelle: Do they fuck!

Jenny: We want it to have a real old-school, retro, vintage vibe, so feel free to just go for it!

Michelle: Feel free to kiss my hole.

[In the school corridor.]

(The girls see Mae Cheung by her locker.)

Clare: Okay, so I say we just go over there and be ourselves, girls. Well, not totally ourselves. We should definitely be a bit ourselves. We could also pretend we're sort of better than we actually are.

(Michelle rolls her eyes.)

Clare: So I suppose what I'm saying is we could sort of present a version of ourselves that's less...

Erin: Crap.

Clare: Precisely.

Michelle: Why do we even have to talk to her?

Clare: Because she's new, Michelle!

Michelle: Eugh, I hate people I don't know.

Clare: And in case you hadn't noticed, she also happens to be Chinese. I mean, how class would it be to have a Chinese friend?!

Orla: We could keep her in my toy box!

Erin: No, we couldn't, Orla.

Orla: Oh, she'd definitely fit!

Erin: That is not the point.

Michelle: Fine, but can we agree it's on a strict one-in, one-out basis? If she joins the group, James has to leave.

Clare: Of course!

Erin: Fine.

Orla: Absolutely.

James: (looking offended) Excuse me.

(The groups approaches Mae. Clare smiles and waves enthusiastically while speaking Chinese.)

Mae: Is she all right?

Michelle: (sighs) Burning for you, Clare.

Clare: It's Cantonese.

Mae: Right, well I'm from Donegal and we speak English there.

Michelle: If you say so, Mae, but I spent a summer in Killybegs, and seriously? Not a fucking word.

Clare: We just wanted to introduce ourselves, and-

Mae: Okay, I think I see where this is going. I get this a lot. Dull white girls wanting me to join their gang because... well... (points at her face)

Erin: We're not dull.

Mae: Sure.

James: And I'm actually a boy.

Mae: Wow, she has a really fucked up accent.

Michelle: We know.

Mae: (sighing and folding her arms) What's in this for me? What are you bringing to the table?

Orla: Cream crackers?

Mae: I'm good for cream crackers, thank you. (closing her locker) I'll see you around, girls.

(Mae starts to walk away.)

Orla: Maybe we don't need a Chinese person. We've already got a lesbian.

Mae: (suddenly turning around) What? Who?

Clare: (raising her hand) Me.

Mae: Really? You don't look like a lesbian.

Clare: What do you mean?

Mae: Just that you're a bit... short.

Clare: Well, there's no height restrictions, as far as I'm aware.

Mae: Interesting. I've always wanted a gay friend. I mean, ideally a fella, but...

Jenny: Howdy, folks!

Michelle: Christ.

Jenny: I'm Jenny. This is Aisling. We just thought we'd introduce ourselves and see if...

Clare: Too late, Jenny. She's ours.

Jenny: I see. Look, these girls are great, but I do have a pen pal from the Carribean, so perhaps my circle is a little bit more diverse?

Clare: Back. Off.

Jenny: (handing Mae a slip of paper) Think it over. Give me a call. Oh, and FYI, the prom queen vote closes today.

Michelle: FY-nobody-gives-a-shit!

Aisling: Here's the wee ballot.

Erin: (looking at the ballot) I see you've thrown your hat into the ring, Jenny.

Jenny: I had my arm twisted. But feel free to tick my box.

Michelle: Dirty bitch.

[In the street.]

Michelle: Well, this prom's going to be a full-blown dick fest. You know there isn't even going to be a DJ? Apparently Jenny hired this fucking pensioner band.

(Orla happily waves at someone on the street.)

Erin: Christ. Really?

Michelle: I heard the drummer is at least thirty!

James: I don't feel so bad about missing it now. It clashes with my thing.

Michelle: The creep convention? Seriously?

James: It's not a creep convention.

Michelle: Well, I think a load of perverts getting together to wank over some fella, who fights with hoovers and rides aliens in a telephone box, is the very fucking definition of a creep convention.

James: It's a Doctor Who night. Me and my stepdad used to watch it when I was little.

Michelle: Well someone should have called social services then James!

Clare: (upset) You're not going to the prom then, James? Well, I was going to ask you to be my date!

(Michelle looks disgusted.)

James: I'm sorry, Clare.

Michelle: You were going to ask James to be your date? What the fuck's wrong with you?

Clare: Well it's a bit more complicated for me!

Michelle: You're a lesbian, Clare. Not desperate.

[In the shopping mall.]

Clare: Well, now I don't know who to ask.

Michelle: Tell me about it. There's at least five fellas that fancy the arse off me, but I just can't choose.

Clare: Yeah, that's definitely the same.

Erin: I'll be your date, Clare.

Clare: But, Erin, people might talk. They might get the wrong idea.

Erin: Let them. We need to break down these ridiculous conventions.

Clare: Are you sure?

Erin: I'd be proud to have you on my arm.

Clare: (beaming) Thank you.

(The girls walk into a diner.)

Erin: Oh, God. John Paul's over there. Christ, but it's been so awkward since we broke up.

Michelle: For fuck's sake, Erin. He kissed you on the cheek at Kerry Coyle's sixteenth birthday party and then passed out in a puddle of his own boke.

Erin: Yeah, he missed the boat, all right.

Michelle: I'm sure the fact that he's poking a model is some consolation.

(They sit down at a table.)

Erin: Okay, Cara is not a model. She has done SOME modelling. There's a difference.

Orla: I heard she's going to be on Baywatch.

Erin: She is not going to be on Baywatch, Orla.

Michelle: I heard that too. The Baywatch thing.

Clare: So did I.

Erin: They don't have people from Derry on Baywatch, okay? We're just too pasty. Look, it was never going to work out between me and John Paul. I realise that now. Because I'm looking for an intellectual connection, and he wants-

Michelle: (nodding) To ride a model.

Erin: She is not a model.

Clare: (looking startled) Oh my God!

Erin: What?

Clare: It looks like they're breaking up!

Cara: I can't do this anymore!

John Paul: Why?!

Erin: Jesus! Are they really? Are they breaking up?

(Cara gets up and walks away.)

Erin: They are! They're breaking up! This is class.

Clare: What?!

Erin: Later!

(Erin walks towards John Paul's table.)

Clare: Erin, what are you doing?!

Michelle: She has no respect for herself. And coming from me...

Clare: That is bad.

Michelle: Exactly.

(Erin is standing over John Paul. He cries into his hands.)

Erin: Hey. Hey. HEY!

John Paul: Jesus Christ!

Erin: Sorry. What happened there was... well, I slightly misjudged the level of my own voice, I think.

John Paul: You're grand, I was in a world of me own.

Erin: (sitting down) Everything okay?

John Paul: Yeah, yeah.

Erin: You sure?

John Paul: Oh yeah.

Erin: Really? It's just, I couldn't help but notice that you and Cara were sort of breaking up a bit, there.

John Paul: Yeah. I mean, it's all cool.

Erin: Really?

John Paul: It was mutual. It was definitely a mutual thing. Although, maybe she wanted to mutually split up a bit more than I did.

Erin: I see.

John Paul: Now, I'm just not sure it was the right decision.

Erin: It definitely was!

John Paul: We just got each other, you know? I mean, she's so cool, and smart.

Erin: Smart? Really?

John Paul: And she's a model, for Christ's sake.

Erin: She's done SOME modelling.

John Paul: I'm just wondering whether I should, like, go after her and try to sort it out?

Erin: You definitely shouldn't do that.

John Paul: Really?

Erin: Yeah, it's needy. What you should do is take your mind off it.

John Paul: (smiling through his tears) Okay, cool. Sweet. (his smile drops) How?

Erin: Go out with me. I mean, go out with us. Me and my-my friends. We're going to this prom thing on Saturday night.

John Paul: A prom? Sounds sort of...

Erin: Shit?

John Paul: Formal.

Erin: Oh no, it's not. It's actually not at all. It's actually very informal. It's actually really, like, laid-back, chilled, "who gives an F-" kind of thing. It's not a big deal. It's not a big deal AT ALL.

(John Paul smiles through his tears again. Erin smiles.)

[In the Quinn kitchen.]

Erin: (following Mary around) This is a huge deal. This is a massive, massive deal. I'm going to the prom with John Paul O'Reily, for God's sake. Oh, come on, Mammy!

Mary: I don't care if you're going to the prom with John Paul the second, Erin. I'm not buying you another frock. End of story.

Erin: But Mammy, you don't understand.

Mary: There's nothing wrong with your Easter dress.

Erin: There is lots of things wrong with my Easter dress.

Mary: I mean, it matches Orla's.

(Orla stands in the living room with her Easter dress on while Sarah measures her.)

Erin: That being the main one.

Orla: Honestly Erin, I think we'll look so cracker if we both rock in wearing these.

Erin: Right. Well, I don't.

Sarah: Och, Mary, you'd think the wain's been dropped into it. You wouldn't nip it in a bit for her? I'd do it myself but sewing plays havoc with my acrylics.

Mary: Fine.

Erin: I really like this fella, Mammy.

Mary: Well, if he really likes you, it won't matter what you wear.

Erin: Och, come off it!

Sarah: Have you a date lined up, Orla?

Orla: I do, aye.

Erin: (looking confused) What? With like, a human?

Orla: Yeah.

Ian Paisley on TV: This document is an insult to the majority of people of Northern Ireland!

(Gerry is watching TV and Joe walks in.)

Gerry: All right, Ian, we get the idea like.

(The TV suddenly loses signal. Gerry sighs, getting up to check.)

Granda Joe: What are you footering at?

Gerry: The picture's just gone a bit, sort of...

(Joe thumps the TV.)

Gerry: Dear Jesus!

Granda Joe: You have to give it a bit of a shock now and again. (he hits it again) You have to keep it on its toes.

Gerry: I'm not sure you do have to keep it on its toes, Joe. It's a television!

(Joe continues to thump the TV.)

Gerry: Okay, okay, okay! I'm just going to turn it off and turn it on again. That usually does the trick.

(Gerry turns the TV off and on again.)

Gerry: There we go. Hmm? There doesn't seem to be anything happening now.

Granda Joe: This stupid prick's broken the TV, Mary!

(Mary runs in, panicking.)

Mary: For God's sake, Gerry!

Granda Joe: He's been footering.

Gerry: Excuse me. You're the one that was thumping it repeatedly, Joe.

Granda Joe: I'll thump you repeatedly!

Mary: Well the pair of you better sort it out. London's Burning's on in twenty minutes.

Sarah: God, Mary, but them poor fellas are flat out with fires, so they are. Jesus, but they never get a minute.

(Joe continues to thump the TV.)

Mary: Aye, it's a good job they keep themselves in such great shape.

Sarah: Aw, don't, Mary. That Greek fella.

(Mary smirks and slaps Sarah on the arm.)

Mary: He could throw me over his shoulder any day of the week.

Erin: Boke-o-rama!

[In the shopping mall.]

Erin: I hate to do this, Clare.

Clare: (angry) I said it's fine.

Erin: Really?

Clare: I'm happy for you.

Erin: Okay, it's just you don't sound happy for me.

Clare: Well, I am. I'm over the moon!

Erin: Great, because me and John Paul are just at a really crucial point in our relationship.

Michelle: You've strong-armed him into taking you to the prom, Erin. Doesn't mean you're in a relationship.

Erin: We'll see about that.

Mae: (walking up to the girls) Hiya! So, this is where the gays hang out, is it?

(Orla nods happily. Clare shakes her head and giggles.)

Mae: So, what's happening?

Michelle: Erin's just sacked Clare as a prom date so she can take the fella she fancies.

Mae: Bad craic, Erin. Very bad craic.

Erin: That is not true.

James: Isn't it?

Erin: Well, I mean, there is some truth in it.

Mae: Come with me.

Clare: Really?

Erin: Really?

Mae: Really. It'll be a laugh. And I'm definitely an upgrade. (to Erin) Just a wee joke there.

Erin: Yeah, it was. It was dead funny.

Mae: (to Clare) What do you say?

Clare: Sounds good to me.

Mae: Great! All sorted.

(Orla and James look delighted.)

Michelle: Okay, now that Mae has officially joined the group, we need to give James his notice.

(James' smile drops.)

James: What?

Michelle: I personally think a week's more than generous.

Orla: (smiling) Me too.

James: (looking upset and offended) Orla!

Orla: Oh, I'm sorry, James, but Chinese people are just better than English people.

(The group walk through the mall.)

Erin: Right. I say we hit Primark first.

Mae: Classy.

Erin: Yeah, well, we have about £17.50 between us, Mae, so needs must.

Michelle: It's grand, I swiped my ma's credit card.

James: Is that grand? Or is it actually a criminal offence?

Michelle: Look, we'll just whack a couple of dresses on it, don't take the labels off, and wear them to prom, then return them the next day. The money will be back in her account as quick as it went out.

Clare: No way, Jose!

Michelle: It's totally grand, Clare. I do it all the time. You just have to make sure that you don't, like, spill anything on it, or, like, sweat.

[In a dress shop.]

(James is holding dresses and almost falling asleep. Erin walks out of the changing room in a skin-tight blue dress.)

Erin: What do you think of this one?

Michelle: I dunno. I'm not sure it's you, really.

Erin: (struggling to walk) Good. I don't want to be me.

Clare: (holding up a blue dress and a pink dress) Which of these do you like best?

Erin: Definitely the pink.

Mae: Has to be the blue.

Clare: (looking at Erin spitefully) Yeah, I thought the blue.

Michelle: (trying on a dress) This doesn't do my baps any justice.

Clare: Have you decided who you're bringing yet?

Michelle: Well I've narrowed it down to two. There's big Johnny Kells who works in Dunnes. Thick as fuck, but a massive, massive ride. Then there's this other fella, he's not as thick, but he's also not as hot, although I have heard he is really good with his hands. And when I say he's good with his hands, I'm not talking about putting up shelves, girls. I'm talking about...

James: (bored) Everybody knows what you're talking about, Michelle.

Michelle: Fingering. (looking smug)

James: Honestly!

Mae: I can't find anything I like.

Orla: (from the changing room) Well, I'm just so torn. I mean, I love my Easter dress, but this is cracker too. 

(Orla jumps out of the changing room in a purple and orange jumpsuit.) 

Orla: There is just nothing that doesn't suit me.

[At the till paying for the dresses.]

(Mae spots a red dress behind the counter.)

Mae: Oh my God! That's the one! (to the cashier) Can I try that one, please?

Cashier: Sorry, love, that's been left over for someone.

Mae: What?

(Jenny walks in with balloons.)

Jenny: Hiya! Sorry, guys, I can't stop.

Michelle: Nobody wants you to.

Jenny: Just grabbing a few wee bits for the prom, sure you know how it is!

(The cashier begins packing the red dress into a bag.)

Mae: Oh, I was actually about to try that one on.

Jenny: (paying) Well, I left it over, so...

Mae: It's just that red's my colour.

Jenny: Yeah, mine too.

Mae: No, you don't understand. I really, really suit it.

Jenny: Yeah, so do I.

(The cashier hands the bag to Jenny.)

Mae: Garnet's actually my birthstone.

Jenny: Well, ruby's mine, so...

Mae: (aggressive) I want that dress, Jenny.

Jenny: Well, you can't have it.

(Michelle and Orla gasp. Erin smiles at Mae smugly. Jenny walks out.)

Mae: Bitch!

[In the shopping mall.]

Mae: (angrily) I cannot believe she wouldn't even let me try it on.

(Clare scoffs in agreement.)

Erin: Yeah, well, she did leave it over, so...

Clare: She so knew it would look better on you.

Mae: Exactly.

Clare: I heard the whole prom queen thing's rigged as well. I heard she's set it up so she can win it.

Mae: Fuck me, what a total dick! She shouldn't be able to get away with that.

Erin: Look, the only reason we're having a prom is because Jenny organised it.

Clare: So?

Erin: So, if she wants to be prom queen, let her be prom queen.

Mae: Why are you sticking up for her?!

Erin: Why are you slagging her off?!

Michelle: Erin, all we do it slag off Jenny.

Erin: Yeah, well, we've the right to slag her off. We put the hours in. You can't just show up one day and join in!

Clare: (stops and turns to Erin) Mae's one of us now, Erin.

Erin: Mae's an arsehole.

Clare: That's out of order, Erin! She's Chinese, for God's sake!

Erin: She's from Donegal. And can't you see what she's doing? "Oh, I'll take you to prom. Oh, the blue dress is better."

Clare: Oh my God. Are you jealous?

Erin: (chuckling) Yeah, I'm going out with the biggest ride in Derry, but I'm jealous of you and your new friend? Yeah, that's definitely what's happening!

Clare: It does seem like that's what's happening, actually.

Erin: You know what? I don't need this. I'm going.

Clare: Good.

Erin: Grand.

Clare: Great.

Erin: Fine.

(They smirk sarcastically at each other and Erin storms off. She suddenly turns and walks the other way.)

Erin: I went the wrong way.

[In the Quinn living room.]

(Orla sits in her prom/Easter dress.)

Sarah: Now, close your eyes, I'm just gonna give you a wee light mist, just so it holds for you.

(Sarah sprays Orla's hair with two hairspray bottles.)

Orla: Ooh.

Mary: Och, Sarah, you'll choke the wain!

(Orla coughs. Erin walks in uncomfortably in her blue skin-tight dress.)

Erin: What do you think?

Mary: God aye, it's different, isn't it?

Erin: Different? What does that mean?

Mary: It was nice of Michelle to lend it to you, love, but it just doesn't look very comfortable.

Erin: It's really comfortable, actually. (stumbles across the room) It's like a second skin.

Orla: I wish you would wear your Easter frock, Erin. When we were wee, we always went to parties dressed the same.

Erin: We're not wee, anymore, Orla.

Orla: Aye...

(Erin hands Mary a sheet of paper.)

Mary: What's this?

Erin: It's some guidelines. Things you are and aren't allowed to say to John Paul when he gets here.

Mary: Right.

(Mary scrunches the sheet of paper into a ball. Erin looks appalled.)

Sarah: What time's your date arriving at, Orla, love?

(Granda Joe appears wearing a white suit.)

Granda Joe: He's already here.

(Joe spins happily, showing off his suit.)

Erin: (smiling) You asked Granda to the prom?

Orla: Well, everyone kept saying you have to ask a fella you really like, and he's the fella I like the most.

(Joe bows.)

Sarah: (smiling warmly) Och, Orla, love.

Gerry: You're looking well, Joe.

Granda Joe: It's not all shite you talk, Gerry. (turning to Erin and Orla) Should we head?

Erin: John Paul's picking me up at seven. You go on. We'll see you there.

(Orla runs over to Joe and takes a flower from him. Erin sits down awkwardly at the kitchen table to wait. Mary and Sarah look at her with concern.)

[In the school hall. The prom has begun and a band is playing onstage.]

(Clare and Mae walk in together.)

Clare: Wow, Jenny's done some number in here!

Mae: Dick. Don't worry, she won't get away with it.

Clare: What?

Mae: The prom queen thing. Let's just say she'll be wearing red, all right.

Clare: What does that mean?

Mae: Nobody crosses me, Clare.

(Mae walks away.)

Clare: Mae, wait!

(Michelle runs up to Clare.)

Michelle: You look hot.

Clare: Thank you.

Michelle: No, I mean like, actually hot. Like, physically hot. You better not be sweating in that dress, Clare. They won't give me a refund if there's a whiff off it.

Clare: I'm not sweating!

Michelle: Let me check.

Clare: Get off me! (shoves Michelle aside)

Michelle: Christ, I'm at my wits end trying to keep them two lads apart.

Clare: What? You didn't bring both boys to prom, did you, Michelle?

Michelle: I couldn't make up my mind! I thought I could just stick them in two separate corners and go between them, but they won't fucking keep put!

Clare: Imagine that! It's almost like they have their own free will!

Michelle: Tell me about it, it's a fucking nightmare!

[In the Quinn kitchen.]

(Erin watches the clock. It's after seven.)

[In the school hall.]

(Orla and Joe have arrived.)

Michelle: Jesus, Joe, you're looking well!

Granda Joe: Aye, I know.

Orla: Why isn't anyone dancing?

Michelle: How're you supposed to dance to this old shite?

Granda Joe: Come on, Orla. We'll show them.

(Joe and Orla happily approach the dancefloor and perform a full fifties dance routine. People start joining them on the dancefloor. Clare watches, smiling.)

Michelle: (spots her two dates arguing) Jesus Christ!

Clare: What's wrong?

Michelle: They're talking to each other now. They're actually fucking talking to each other! (runs over, leaving Clare)

(A boy approaches Clare.)

Boy: Are you Clare?

Clare: That's right.

Boy: Hi, I'm Kris. I'm here with Tara Martin. She's... Oh God, where's she gone? (smiles) Tall, blonde, wears glasses?

Clare: Ah, trampy Tara?

Kris: We've just started seeing each other, actually.

Clare: Oh, no, not that kind of trampy. No, we just call her that because she's got quite a heavy gait. You should listen out for it. Anyway, what can I do for you?

Kris: Well, I see you're hanging out with Mae?

Clare: That's right.

Kris: So, I know Mae from back home.

Clare: From China?

Kris: No. Donegal.

Clare: Yes. Right, sorry.

Kris: No worries. Yeah, Mae went to my school. Did she ever tell you why she had to leave?

Clare: HAD to leave?

[In the Quinn kitchen.]

(Erin is still waiting. Time passes from half seven to half eight. Erin looks upset.)

Erin: He's not coming.

Mary: Och, love. (reaching out to hold her hand)

Erin: I'm gonna go and change.

Mary: Maybe leave it another few minutes.

Erin: I want to get out of this thing.

(Erin awkwardly gets up and starts walking towards the stairs. Mary looks sad. The doorbell rings and Erin stops in her tracks, pulling herself together. She answers the door and James stands there in a suit, smiling.)

James: Your mum rang me.

Erin: But what about your creep convention?

James: Okay, it's not a creep convention, and it's not important. Shall we go?

Erin: Can you give me one minute?

(James nods, smiling. Erin goes upstairs. James paces the floor waiting for her. She emerges in her Easter dress, taking James' arm as they leave.)

[In the school hall.]

(Orla and Joe are still dancing. Clare frantically approaches Michelle.)

Clare: Michelle, listen.

Michelle: Well that backfired.

Clare: What?

Michelle: The lads. They worked it out. They've gone to the pub, together.

(Erin and James enter.)

Clare: Look, there's a guy here, he knows Mae and...

Michelle: (to Erin and James) What's going on? Aw, don't tell me. Wank features stood you up?

Erin: Yeah.

Clare: I'm sorry, Erin.

Erin: No, I'm sorry. You were right. I was jealous. Mae's just so cool and exotic and you liked her so much and...

Clare: She's deranged.

Erin: What?

Clare: I met this guy that went to her school, he said she had to leave for, like, being a bully. He said she's seriously unhinged! I think he's a bit pissed off with her to be honest, and I can't blame him because she's giving the Chinese population in Donegal a really bad rap.

Michelle: Typical Donegal man. Always moaning.

(James spots Mae.)

James: There she is.

(Mae stealthily walks onto the stage.)

Michelle: What's she doing?

Clare: She was talking about how she wasn't gonna let Jenny get away with the whole prom queen thing.

James: Jesus Christ, look! Above the stage, look. She's not gonna do a Carrie!

Michelle: Fuck-a-doodle-doo!

Clare: What's a Carrie? What does that mean?

James: You've never seen Carrie?

Clare: No.

Michelle: Aw, it's some film, Clare.

Erin: Amazing.

Orla: (approaching) Aye, you should check it out!

Clare: Expand and explain. Expand and explain!!

(Band stops playing.)

James: So Carrie is voted prom queen and this bully pours a bucket of pig's blood on her.

Clare: Jesus Christ!

James: I mean, lots of other stuff happens too, but that's the sort of relevant bit.

(Aisling walks onto the stage.)

Aisling: Can I have your attention please?

(The group look worried.)

Aisling: And now, the moment we've all been waiting for, it's time to crown our prom queen!

(Mae stands backstage holding a rope.)

Erin: Holy shit!

[In the Quinn living room.]

Mary: How long are we supposed to go on like this, Gerry?

(Gerry is on the floor behind the TV as Mary and Sarah watch him.)

Gerry: I am trying my best.

Mary: We've already missed Coronation Street.

Gerry: Well, every cloud, as they say.

Mary: I've warned you before, Gerry. You say another bad word about Coronation Street and you may leave this house and never return!

Sarah: And you'd have my full backing on that, Mary.

Mary: God only knows what else we've missed.

Gerry: We won't have missed anything!

(The TV comes on.)

Gerry: Yes!

News reporter: And tonight's main story again. A historic evening for Northern Ireland. As of midnight tonight, after twenty-five years the IRA have called a ceasefire. In a statement released earlier this evening, they said there would be a complete cessation of all military operations.

Mary: (to Gerry) What did I tell you?

Sarah: Aye, well done Gerry.

(Gerry is speechless.)

Aisling: And our prom queen is... Jenny Joyce!

(Jenny looks shocked and excited as the girls begin to panic.)

Clare: We have to do something!

(Jenny walks onto the stage and Aisling crowns her.)

Jenny: Thank you so much.

(The rope creaks.)

Erin: Quick!

Jenny: I'd just like to say a few words. Firstly, this is such an honour.

Clare: (backstage with Mae) Mae! Stop!

Mae: Piss off, Clare!

(Clare jumps in and grabs the rope from Mae. Mae fights for the rope. Erin, James and Michelle run onstage.)

Erin: (cutting Jenny off) Lovely words, Jenny, well done!

(The girls try to push Jenny out of the way but Jenny won't move.)

Michelle: Come on, Jenny. Don't milk it, now.

Aisling: Get off her! What is this?

(Mae and Clare continue fighting over the rope.)

Mae: Bite my eye! Traitor!

James: (to Jenny) Have you ever seen Carrie?

(Mae and Clare lose their grip on the rope. Tomato juice pours over Jenny, Erin, Michelle, James and Aisling. The crowd gasps.)

Erin: It's pig's blood. It's pig's blood!

James: No, I think it's tomato juice.

Michelle: What the fuck am I supposed to do?! (gesturing to her dress) They'll never take this back now!

Jenny: Why would you do this?

Erin: It wasn't us! This wasn't us!

Aisling: Yeah, right.

(Jenny starts fighting with Erin. Michelle starts fighting with Aisling. Granda Joe and Orla watch as they eat popcorn. Clare and Mae continue to fight backstage.)

[On the street. The people of Derry cheer and celebrate.]

Radio: The statement has raised hopes for peace and an end to twenty-five years of bombing and shooting that has led to the deaths of more than three-thousand people.

(Sister Michael listens to the radio in her office, smiling.)

Radio: The British Prime Minister, John Major said, "We are beyond the beginning but we are not yet in sight of the end."

(Mary and Gerry bring cups of tea out to the street, where people are still drinking and celebrating. Some people graffiti a peace sign on the sign "YOU ARE NOW ENTERING FREE DERRY".)

(The girls continue to fight on the stage.)



EPISODE 6

[On the street. People are putting up an American flag.]

[In the Quinn living room. The Christmas tree is up, decorated with American flags.]

Radio: The president of the United States, Bill Clinton, a committed supporter of the peace process, will visit with both sides of the community during his trip to Belfast before travelling to Londonderry.

(Erin smiles excitedly.)

Granda Joe: (running in) He's here! He's here! He's handed!

Mary: I know he has, Da! And look at the state of the place!

Granda Joe: I better tell Jim across the road. (runs out)

Mary: Christ, I'm at my wit's end!

Gerry: Firstly, he's not coming to Derry until tomorrow.

Mary: Have you seen the heck of those skirting boards, Gerry? I'd need a week to tackle them!

Gerry: And secondly, I think it's unlikely he'll call to our house.

Mary: He might call, Gerry.

Sarah: (smoking) Aye, he might take a notion.

Gerry: I think presidential visits are quite carefully planned. I'm not sure there's an awful lot of room for notion-taking.

Mary: Hope you're right, Gerry, for it's like Beirut in here. (picks up a mug) I mean, when's the last time these were bleached?

(Sarah hands her cigarette to Orla and she begins to plait her hair.)

Mary: I couldn't hand Hillary that.

Sarah: I'd say she keeps her place shining, Mary.

Mary: Sure she'd put you to shame.

(Granda Joe enters again.)

Granda Joe: Right, we need to clear this table. Jim's bringing his equipment over.

Gerry: What equipment?

Mary: Them oul radio transmitters he collects. Him and Daddy think they can tap into the CIA's system on them.

Gerry: Excuse me?

Sarah: Jim really buzzes off radio contact.

Gerry: You canna tap the CIA, Joe.

Granda Joe: It'll make tracking Clinton down much easier.

Gerry: Right. I don't think the CIA enjoy people tracking the President down. I think they can get funny about that type of stuff.

Granda Joe: Well let them try and bloody stop me!

Gerry: They will stop you, Joe. They're the CIA.

Granda Joe: I won't miss my chance! Not again! You hear me, boy?

Gerry: What the hell is he planning to do?

Mary: When JFK came to Dublin, Uncle Colm met him, Daddy didn't.

Granda Joe: Things are gonna be different this time, I tell you.

Gerry: JFK spoke to Colm? Christ, that man didn't have much luck, did he?

Erin: I'm not sure any of us will get to meet Bill or Hillary.

Gerry: Some sense, at last.

Erin: They'll be far too busy. That's why we've decided to take Chelsea off their hands.

Gerry: What?

Orla: We're going to bring her to Lisnagelvin swimming pool.

Erin: The wave machine's been fixed!

Mary: Lovely.

Orla: I hope she remembers her swimming cap, Erin. They've got dead strict about swimming caps.

Sarah: And that wain has some head of hair on her.

Gerry: Dear Jesus.

[In the assembly hall at school.]

Clare: Any word from Chelsea?

Erin: Not yet. And we sent that letter over a week ago.

Clare: Are you sure you got the address right?

Orla: Chelsea Clinton, The White House, America.

Clare: It just doesn't make any sense.

Michelle: Did you send it first class?

Erin: We're not made of money, Michelle.

[Time lapse.]

Jenny: (singing) Christmas time.

Aisling: (singing) Silent night.

Jenny: (singing) Mistletoe and wine.

Aisling: (singing) Holy night.

Jenny: (singing) Children singing Christian rhyme.

Jenny and Aisling: (singing) With logs on the fire and gifts on the tree, a time to rejoice (Jenny shakes tamborine) in the good that we see. (Jenny hits triangle)

Michelle: That totally just wrecked my buzz.

Sister Michael: Great stuff altogether. A fitting rendition of what I consider to be the most God awful song ever written. Just one announcement today, girls. I'm sure many of you will have guessed what it's about. Although tomorrow is not officially a public holiday, schools across the city have decided to view it as such. Because tomorrow, the President of the United States of America is coming here, to Derry.

(Clare smiles with delight.)

Sister Michael: You're a little young to perhaps understand the enormity of this. A few short months ago, this would have been unimaginable.

(Erin smiles proudly.)

Sister Michael: But here we are. And I for one can barely believe it.

(Michelle and James smile.)

Sister Michael: I mean, people in this place stop killing each other for five minutes and the whole world loses the absolute run of itself! This visit concerns me for a number of reasons, girls, but mostly because I am scared it will give the Pope ideas, and that's the last thing I need. No. Our Lady Immaculate will play no part in this farce. And I expect to see you all here tomorrow morning, business as usual. Is that clear?

(Silence.)

Sister Michael: Is. That. Clear?!

Crowd: (miserably) Yes, Sister Michael.

Sister Michael: (blesses herself) The Father, Son, Holy Spirit.

[In the corridor.]

Clare: She can't do this. She simply cannot do this.

Michelle: Well, she's done it, Clare.

Clare: But it's history! She's making us miss history!

Orla: Och, but I really wanted to find out what that Cromwell fella got up to next. I really enjoy him!

Clare: Not history class, Orla. Real history. History being made!

Erin: And Irish people aren't allowed to enjoy Oliver Cromwell, Orla.

Orla: Why?

Michelle: Because he was a fucking arsehole!

James: Look, Bill doesn't even get here until four o'clock tomorrow.

Michelle: "Bill"? Who are you, his ma?

James: We've got plenty of time, is all I'm saying.

Clare: Do you know how packed that Guildhall Square is gonna be, James? You'd have to camp overnight just to get a glimpse of him.

Erin: Chelsea will sort us out.

Clare: Och, I'm not even sure I trust Chelsea anymore!

Michelle: Aye, Chelsea might be flaky.

Orla: She does have crafty eyes.

Erin: Okay, I'm not comfortbale with the Chelsea-bashing, girls.

Clare: This is the biggest thing that's ever happened here. That's ever likely to happen here. We should be a part of it!

Michelle: We will be.

Clare: Are you suggesting we play truant?

Michelle: Okay, normal people don't call it that, but yes, yes I am.

Clare: You know what, girls? Sometimes, in order to do the right thing, you have to do the wrong thing. And on this occasion, right is wrong, and wrong is right!

Michelle: What the fuck are you on about? Are you gonna sack off school or not?

Clare: Let's do it!

[In Dennis's Wee Shop.]

(Dennis holds up a flag. Clare counts the stars on it.)

Dennis: That'll be £1.99.

Clare: Right.

Dennis: Is there some sort of a problem here, girls?

Clare: Not a problem, as such. More of a question, really.

Dennis: And you think I'm here to answer questions, do you? Who am I? Magnus fucking Magnusson?

James: (smiling) He doesn't answer questions, he asks them.

Dennis: Pipe the fuck down.

(James looks sad.)

Erin: It's just, it's pink, white and purple, Dennis.

Dennis: So?

Erin: Well, it should be red, white and blue.

Dennis: Says who?

Michelle: The rest of the world.

Clare: There's also quite a few stars missing.

Dennis: No, there's not.

Clare: There's only thirty stars here. I mean, there should be fifty, just because the stars represent the states, so-

Dennis: Some of them left.

Erin: Some states left?

Dennis: That's right.

Erin: Some states left America?

Dennis: Yep.

Michelle: When did this happen?

Dennis: The other day.

Orla: God, that's desperate.

Erin: I dunno, I just feel like if twenty states left the USA, we might have heard about it.

Dennis: Ah, they didn't want to make it into a big thing. So these are the new, modern, up-to-date flags. They've just brought them out.

Erin: Okay. It's just, well, I'm not convinced that's actually true.

Dennis: Well why would I lie?

Michelle: Because you bought a fuck load of dud flags and you're trying to get rid of them.

Dennis: GET OUT!!

(The girls run out.)

Erin: What first attracted him to a career in retail, do you think?

(A car pulls up beside the girls. A woman is inside.)

Woman: Hello there. Why don't you hop in?

(Erin looks scared and no one says anything.)

Woman: Och, come on now. Don't be shy.

Erin: Help! Stranger! Stranger danger!

Michelle: Jesus Christ, Erin!

Erin: Help! This woman is trying to abduct us!

Clare: Help! Fire! There's a fire!

Michelle: Fire? What the fuck are you on about?

Clare: It gets more attention! I read it somewhere!

Erin: KIDNAPPER!!

Clare: HELP! FIRE!

Orla: Help! There's a kidnapper on fire!

Michelle: Will yous all just shut the fuck up? It's fine! She's not a kidnapper.

Erin: Well, who is she?

Michelle: My Aunt Cathy.

(Cathy smiles at James.)

James: (looking shocked) Hello, Mum.

(The girls look shocked.)

[In the Quinn kitchen.]

(Joe, Colm and Jim have headphones on, deep in concentration. Mary, Gerry and Sarah are watching TV.)

Gerry: What exactly is the plan over there?

Mary: They're trying to discover the location of the presidential base camp.

Gerry: Does that mean which hotel he's staying in?

Mary: Think so, aye.

(The door opens and Erin and Orla walk in excitedly.)

Mary: What kept you two?

Erin: We have some serious scandal, Mammy!

Mary: I'm not interested in any of your oul schoolgirl gossip, Erin.

Sarah: I am.

Erin: We just met James' mammy.

Mary: Cathy Maguire's back? Really?

Orla: She tried to set us on fire.

(Mary, Gerry and Sarah get up.)

Gerry: She did what?!

Erin: She didn't!

Mary: Jesus, but she's no shame.

Sarah: Tell me this, wains. How were the eyebrows?

Erin: What do you mean?

Sarah: The eyebrows. Were they looking well?

Erin: I didn't really notice her eyebrows.

Sarah: Cathy Maguire had the best eyebrows in Derry back in her day. She could've given Joan Crawford a run for her money. Isn't that right, Mary?

Mary: I've no time for Cathy Maguire. The woman abandoned her own wain, Sarah. She always was one cold, self-serving wee madam.

Sarah: I'm not talking about her. I'm talking about her eyebrows. Cathy and her eyebrows are two separate entities.

Mary: All right. Don't be getting worked up.

Sarah: Well I just think you should be able to compliment a woman's eyebrows without having her personality dragged into it.

(The doorbell rings. Erin goes to answer it.)

Mary: Fine. Her eyebrows were exceptional.

Sarah: Thank you.

Erin: (shouting) It's Uncle Colm!

Gerry: Dear God, no.

(Uncle Colm walks in.)

Mary: Everything all right, Colm?

Uncle Colm: Aw God, aye. Well, the oul knee's giving me a bit of jip, but sure, I'll not bore you with the details.

Gerry: I doubt that.

Uncle Colm: I felt a twinge there this morning and I says to myself, says I, "Colm, you'll need to get that seen to. You can't let that go," for, and you'll maybe not remember this, girls, but Maggie Murphy felt a twinge on a Monday, and on the Thursday of the very same week, sure didn't she drop dead at the bingo, and her sitting on a full house too. But, sure, you can't take it with you, as they say. God rest her soul.

Mary: Is there something we can do for you, Colm?

Uncle Colm: Oh, I just called round to help with this CIA business.

Granda Joe: (looking angry) Who told you about that?

Jim: I did, Joe.

Granda Joe: Why?

Jim: Look, Colm's met JFK. He has experience with presidents. He'll know what to do.

Granda Joe: No chance! I'm sorry, Colm, but you can't be part of this. If you meet Bill Clinton, you'll be a president up. You'll have two presidents to my one. I can't have you getting ahead of me president-wise.

Sarah: One of his presidents is dead, Daddy.

Granda Joe: It still counts.

Jim: (listening carefully) Ssh!

Granda Joe: I'll only have to even things up again.

Jim: Sssh, Joe.

Granda Joe: I can't spend the rest of my life traipsing about after bloody presidents. I've other things to be at, girls.

Jim: Shut up, Joe!

Granda Joe: What the blazes is wrong with you?! Mouth!

Jim: I think I've got something.

(Mary looks shocked.)

Granda Joe: Don't toy with me now, Jim.

(Joe puts his headphones on. The radio crackles. Erin looks scared.)

Jim: Aye. It was a CIA agent, all right. He said they're taking Bill back to base, and I know where it is!

Granda Joe: We need to move quickly.

Jim: (to Gerry) You still okay to drive us?

(Gerry looks taken aback.)

Gerry: What?

Granda Joe: We need someone to stay in the car, in case things don't go to plan.

Gerry: So, a getaway driver, essentially.

Jim: We're talking worse-case scenario.

Gerry: We're talking no-case scenario!

[In the car. Gerry is driving. Jim in the passenger seat. Joe and Colm are in the back. It is dark outside.]

(They drive past a sign saying 'WELCOME TO BURT'.)

Gerry: It just doesn't make any sense, Jim.

Jim: I heard him say it. As clear as day, it was.

Gerry: Burt? Why would they bring him to Burt?

Jim: Well that's what's so clever about it. Nobody's going to go looking for the president of the USA in Burt, now, are they? Sure, if you went about saying Bill Clinton was in Burt, people would think you were clean mad.

Gerry: Precisely. Look, lads, if you want my opinion...

Granda Joe: We don't!

Gerry: Grand.

Uncle Colm: This Clinton boyo is actually American's fourty-second president, which is interesting now, because JFK, well, he was the thirty-fifth.

Granda Joe: Why is that interesting?

Uncle Colm: Well, it's not really, I suppose. Sometimes I'll just say something to get me from one sentence to the other, Joe. You know how it is.

Jim: It should be just up here on the left.

Uncle Colm: I'm not sure what number Nixon was, now, or the man, what do you call him? The beardy fella in the hat. The one that knocked the oul slavery on the head?

Gerry: Lincoln.

Uncle Colm: The very boy. But then there was the twenty-seventh...

[Time lapse. It is morning. Joe has fallen asleep.]

Uncle Colm: America's thirtieth. And then there was the lad they named all the vacuum cleaners after.

Gerry: Jesus wept. How much further, Jim?

Jim: It should be just up here on the left.

(They pass the same 'WELCOME TO BURT' sign that they passed the previous night.)

Gerry: We're back in the same place.

Uncle Colm: And Kennedy, of course, the poor critter.

Gerry: How?

Uncle Colm: Lovely fella. Hands on him like shovels.

Gerry: How the feck are we back in the same fecking place?!

Granda Joe: (waking up) What's going on?

Gerry: I've driven one-hundred-and-seventy-eight miles and I'm back where I was five fecking hours ago, Joe, that's what's going on!

Granda Joe: You stupid bloody eejit!

Uncle Colm: Thon Reagan character, he was another.

Gerry: (furious) STOP LISTING PRESIDENTS, COLM!!

Granda Joe: He'll list presidents if he wants to list presidents!

Jim: Aw, there it is! Roscarna Road! That's it! That's what they said!

Granda Joe: Well spotted, Jim.

Uncle Colm: Good man yourself, Jim.

Gerry: (sarcastic) Where would we be without you, Jim?

[In the Quinn kitchen.]

Sarah: Daddy and Gerry not back yet?

Mary: They must have had a few drinks and lost track of time. Sure, you know what Bill's like.

Sarah: God, aye, any excuse to whip out the oul saxophone.

(Mary is cooking. Erin and Orla are eating toast.)

Erin: We better hit the Guildhall.

Mary: A bit early, are you not?

Erin: Clare's been there since five this morning, Mammy. It's gonna be jammed.

Sarah: (sitting down) Anything from Chelsea, girls?

Orla: Not a dickie bird, Mammy.

Erin: It's her loss. That wave machine is absolutely cracker.

Sarah: Och well, at least yous were given the day off, sure, that's something.

Orla: We weren't given the day off, Mammy. We're playing truant.

Mary: (smiling) Very good, Orla.

Sarah: Truant. What is she not, Mary?

(The doorbell rings.)

Mary: (shouting) It's open! 'Mon in!

(Michelle, James and Cathy walk in.)

Michelle: All right?

James: I hope you don't mind, Mrs. Quinn, but... (pointing at his mum)

Sarah: Och, Cathy, it's yourself.

Cathy: Long time, girls.

Mary: It is, indeed. (looking Cathy up and down)

Sarah: And fair play to you, Cathy. You've kept them eyebrows shipshape, so you have. Credit where credit's due.

Cathy: Och, you're too kind, Sarah.

Sarah: I'm serious. They're in great nick. That must be some comfort to you.

Cathy: I'm sorry?

Sarah: We heard about your wee divorce. Nightmare.

Cathy: Yeah, it was a difficult decision, but Paul, my ex, well he just became so controlling.

Mary: Jesus, really?

Cathy: He was unbearable towards the end. It was always, "oh Cathy, why did you stay out all night?" or, "Who was that man you were having dinner with, Cathy?" He was very insecure.

Mary: Wonder why.

Cathy: I mean, James' father was the same. I just seem to attract the possessive, jealous types. I don't know what it is.

Sarah: It's the eyebrows.

Cathy: Anyway, I hate to impose on you, but um, I just need to make a quick call, and unbelievably, my sister doesn't have a phone.

Michelle: She got rid of it when we racked up that massive bill ringing Russell Grant's horoscope hotline. He didn't see that coming!

Cathy: James said that you wouldn't mind if I just...

Mary: Of course not. Work away.

Cathy: You're a brick. Let me just find my filofax.

Sarah: (to Mary) A brick?

Mary: Are you staying with your Deirdre, then?

Cathy: Yes, I am. It's a bloody nightmare, if I'm being honest. I'd forgotten just how small these little houses are. I really don't know how you do it.

Mary: Oh, we struggle through, Cathy, in our teeny-tiny house.

Cathy: But it's all worth it if I get to see my big, handsome boy!

(James smiles.)

Cathy: He's going to be the only man in my life from now on.

Mary: Aye, right.

Cathy: I've just missed him so much.

Mary: Well, you did dump him here quite a long time ago.

James: Mum's had a lot going on.

Cathy: Yeah. I've actually just started my own business. It's been a real passion project, a real labour of love! And it's really starting to take off now, so...

Mary: Right. And what sort of area is it?

Cathy: Self-adhesive labels.

Mary: Stickers?

Cathy: I design high-end self-adhesive labels.

Mary: You make stickers.

Cathy: For bespoke gift packages.

Mary: You're a sticker maker.

Cathy: No, they're not stickers exactly.

Sarah: And would there be much money in sticker making, Cathy?

Cathy: They are not stickers! (smiling fakely) Labels. They're labels.

James: (proudly) I think it's gonna do really well.

Erin: We better get going before Clare cacks herself.

(The kids all get up.)

Cathy: (to James) Go on, love, you do your thing. See you later.

Sarah: Here, before you head, I got you a couple of American flags. They're on the sideboard there.

(The girls go to pick up the flags.)

Erin: Thank you, Sarah.

Sarah: They're the new ones, so they are. They've only just brought them out.

(Erin picks up Dennis' dud flag in frustration.)

Orla: (impressed) Yes!

[In Burt.]

Granda Joe: Bill? (knocking on a window) You in there?

Jim: (looking through the window) No sign of life, Joe.

Gerry: What are ye at?

Granda Joe: I thought I told you to stay in the car.

Uncle Colm: Would it be worth, maybe, checking next door, Jim?

(Gerry turns around.)

Gerry: Right. So the Clintons are staying in a taxi rank in the arsehole of nowhere is the thinking now, is it?

Jim: It is, Gerry, aye.

Gerry: Fantastic.

[In the taxi rank.]

Granda Joe: Excuse me, son.

Man: Where to?

Granda Joe: We were just wondering, have you seen the Clintons knocking about around here?

Man: The Clintons?

Jim: We have reason to believe they're staying in this vicinity.

Man: What would the Clintons be doing in Burt?

(A man walks in.)

Man: Heading to the chapel, Bill?

Bill: Aye.

Man: (into mic) Anybody free to pick up Bill from base? Over. Anybody near base at all? Over.

Over radio: All right, back in five.

Man: Five minutes, Bill.

Bill: (nodding and smiling) Good.

Gerry: Now, Jim, would you be open to the following possibility at all, that it may not have been a CIA agent you were picking up on that transmitter of yours. That there is in fact a good chance it was a taxi dispatcher from Burt, ordering a car here to bring Bill to mass?

Jim: He did have a strong Donegal accent, now that you mention it.

Granda Joe: Jesus, Jim!

[On the street. The crowds gather.]

(Clare stands at the railing with a cut lip. A woman approaches her and Clare shakes her head, turning her away. Clare looks pleased with herself.)

(Michelle, Erin, James and Orla approach. Erin has a flag round her neck. Orla has a flag on her head and has USA written backwards on her forehead.)

Clare: It's the best spot. I got THE best spot!

Erin: What happened to your face?

Clare: See that bitch over there? (gestures towards a child)

Erin: That wee girl?

Clare: She tried to muscle in. Things got ugly. She'll think twice next time.

Erin: You didn't fight that wain, did you, Clare?

Clare: I did fight that wain, Erin, and I'll fight that wain again if I have to.

Michelle: What the fuck is wrong with you?

Clare: People have been circling this spot like vultures. I've managed to hold them off so far, but it's only going to get tougher. We must show no weakness. We must be as one.

Michelle: Are you on glue?

Clare: Come on, link up!

(Michelle, Erin and Orla hesitantly link up with Clare. James doesn't move.)

Clare: Come on, James!

James: I need to talk to you. To all of you.

Clare: Later, James.

James: It can't wait.

Michelle: Just fuck up and link on.

James: I'm leaving. I'm going back to London with Mum.

(The girls look shocked.)

Erin: When?

James: Now. I have to go now. The taxi's booked. I'm sorry. It was all decided so quickly...

Orla: I don't understand.

(Erin looks devastated.)

Michelle: He's not serious.

James: I am.

Orla: You can't leave, James.

James: Look, this was always gonna happen. This was never my real life. It was just something that got in the way of it.

Erin: What are you talking about? You love it here.

James: I'm not sure I do. I think I've just developed Stockholm syndrome.

Michelle: Catch yourself on. You've never even been to Switzerland.

James: Listen. I'll never forget this place. But I have to go home now. It's time. Goodbye, girls.

(James turns and walks through the crowd.)

Michelle: (separating herself from the other girls) Oh, I don't fucking think so somehow, dickface!

(Michelle runs through the crowd and finds James under a bridge.)

Michelle: Oy, wank features!

James: Michelle, please.

Michelle: Goodbye, girls? Wise the fuck up!

James: What do you want me to say?

Michelle: She'll let you down again, you do realise that?

James: She's asked me to be a partner in her business, actually, Michelle, so...

Michelle: Now it makes sense. She needs you to help flog her fucking stickers.

James: Self-adhesive labels.

Michelle: Free labour. That's what she's after. You know she only thinks about herself, James. And when it doesn't work out, what then?

James: It will work out! Anyway, it's not like I belong here. I never did.

Michelle: That's not true. You're a Derry Girl now, James.

James: Piss off.

Michelle: I'm serious. It doesn't matter that you've got that stupid accent, or that your bits are different to my bits, but because being a Derry Girl, well, it's a fucking state of mind! And you're one of us.

James: I have to do this.

Michelle: But I don't want you to.

James: She's my mum, Michelle.

Michelle: Well, fuck off then.

(James looks upset as he walks away.)

(Michelle begins to cry.)

[At the school.]

(Sister Michael walks down an empty corridor.)

(Jenny and Aisling sit alone in a classroom.)

Jenny: This is shocking. I mean, what is everybody playing at?

(Aisling rolls her eyes.)

Aisling: What are we playing at?

Jenny: I'm sorry?

(Aisling gets up from her seat and picks up her bag.)

Aisling: Come on, Jenny. For once the world'll be watching us for all the right reasons.

Jenny: But you'll get into trouble, Aisling.

Aisling: I don't care.

(Jenny looks shocked as Aisling happily walks out of the classroom.)

[On the street.]

(James looks uncertain as he gets into the taxi.)

[In the crowd.]

Crowd: (chanting) We want Bill! We want Bill! We want Bill! We want Bill!

(The girls stand at the front of the crowd, looking miserable.)

[At the school.]

(Jenny still sits alone in the classroom as Sister Michael walks in.)

Sister Michael: What are you doing here?

Jenny: You told us we had to come in, Sister.

Sister Michael: Ah, for God's sake, Jenny. You need to learn when to push back.

Jenny: What?

Sister Michael: Get out of here. Go on, now.

(Jenny walks out.)

[In the crowd.]

Crowd: (chanting) We want Bill! We want Bill! We want Bill! We want Bill!

[In the taxi, leaving Derry.]

(James looks upset and uncertain.)

Cathy: You'll be glad to get out of this dive, love. I know I am.

[In the crowd.]

(Bill enters. The crowd cheers.)

[Shot of the taxi driving through the countryside.]

[In the crowd.]

(The crowd continues to cheer.)

Man: And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to introduce the President of the United States of America!

(The girls continue looking miserable.)

(Orla turns to look in the opposite direction, her expression changing to surprise.)

Orla: (pointing) I see him! I see him!

Erin: You're facing the wrong way, Orla.

Orla: No, no, look, it's James!

(Erin turns, and then gets Michelle and Clare's attention as they also turn. They smile lovingly at him at he waves down from the bridge. He shouts something.)

Michelle: What's he saying?

Clare: (chuckling) I don't know.

James: I AM A DERRY GIRL!

Man: A fucking prick is what you are!

(James briefly looks upset, and then his expression changes back to a full smile.)

(The girls run from the crowd to meet James under the bridge.)

(Orla jumps into James's arms. Michelle, Erin and Clare quickly join the embrace. They smile lovingly at James and Michelle wraps him in a flag.)

Bill Clinton: Looking out over these historic walls, I see a peaceful city, a safe city, a hopeful city, full of young people that should have a peaceful and prosperous future here, where their roots and families are.

(The kids walk away from the crowd, arms around each other, smiling.)

Bill Clinton: That is what I see, today with you.

(The crowd cheers. Shot zooms in on TVs in a shop window, displaying Clinton.)

Bill Clinton: And so I ask you to build on the opportunity you have before you. To believe that the future can be better than the past. To work together because you have so much more to gain by working together than by drifting apart. Have the patience to work for a just and lasting peace.